- [Narrator] The land of China was once shrouded in mystery
to the rest of the ancient world.
The Silk Road was a connection between the two realms
that suggested China to be of immense wealth and power.
Whilst these distant civilizations would see dramatic falls,
China would continue to rise through countless dynasties
and emperors for thousands of years
forming the global superpower we know today
from constructing the longest structure in the world
to hosting the largest
and deadliest wars in mankind's history.
China is the longest continuous civilization on earth
dating back 5,000 years, withstanding the ancient era,
the middle Ages, and now the modern period.
But can they continue on?
To understand this fascinating land,
we must start from the beginning.
(dramatic music)
The majority of China's earliest settlements began
along the basin of the yellow River in the north
and the Yangtze in the south.
The people resided on floodplains
and lived agricultural lifestyles,
growing a plethora of millet and rice.
The conditions were fair for farming,
but a major issue plagued the newly blossoming communities
flooding from the Yellow River constantly displaced
or killed settlers, washing away their crops
and lodgings in the process.
The land was cruel and inhospitable,
threatening their newfound way of life
that was unto the legendary and likely mythological,
Yu the Engineer was tasked
with controlling the flow of the rivers.
Yu knew firsthand that the waterways
had not been the settler's biggest adversary for no reason.
His father, Gwen had already spearheaded past efforts
to control the rivers
and a decade of his life had been spent on building
his series of dikes and dams,
which ultimately proved ineffective.
No matter how large Gwen
and his men built their walls,
the river would prevail time and time again.
Unphased by his father's failures,
Yu was more than determined
to carry out the monumental task.
He recruited the help of one
Hao Yi another semi mythical agricultural genius
who is credited with supposedly introducing
millet to humanity.
The pair discussed schematics together
and eventually built a canal based irrigation system,
which removed most of the excess flood water into the sea
while saving some to be reutilized for the growing of crops.
Just like that, the system's debut had finally ended the era
of flooding and Yu the Engineer was named China's ruler
on account of his great success.
(suspenseful music)
Thus began the Xia Dynasty,
the catalyst for China's dynastic system.
The dynasty in its lands were very prosperous under Yu.
They remained a mainly agricultural society,
but are credited with creating many great Chinese
inventions such as stone tools used for farming
and the lunar calendar.
Eventually you divided the territory into nine provinces
and while each one was governed by their own Lord,
they were required to stay loyal to use rain.
Long after his years of stopping rivers
and winning battles against neighboring tribes,
old age and death closed in on you,
which brought forth the question, what now?
Yu decided that he did not want to pass that torch
of leadership onto his son Qi.
He instead wished for his Minister
of Justice GaoYao to take over.
Unfortunately, GaoYao died soon thereafter,
and so a tribal leader named Yi
was chosen to take on the role.
The provincial Lords disagreed with this decision.
They had grown so fond of Yu the great
throughout his 45 years as Emperor,
that they insisted upon his son Qi being his successor.
Their wish was eventually granted.
Qi was the first ruler of China to be granted power,
not for his merit or capability,
but because of his bloodline and connections.
This hereditary system would last for thousands of years.
It was in the 16th century BCE
that the Xia Dynasty finally met its fate.
The last ruler of Yu the Great's bloodline, Jie
was said to be a cruel sadistic leader who led a handful
of military operations solely for revenge and personal gain,
and filled his free time with sex slaves, drunken orgies
and senseless violence.
Perhaps he was too blinded by his hedonism to sense
what was brewing in the lands he now rule.
There was a concept in ancient China known as the mandate
of heaven, a seemingly Shakespearean principle
that not only states that heaven gives noble men the ruling
power of China,
but that any wicked unjust leaders will be removed.
Heaven had clearly taken issue with Jie.
China had entered the Bronze Age
and much to Jie's dismay, a new rebellious power emerged
with brand new bronze weapons.
The Xia were promptly overthrown by this group,
which would be become known as the Shang Dynasty.
(suspenseful music)
Not only did they emerge victorious against the corrupt king
Jie and his men,
but the Shang Dynasty to this day have something
that the Xia lack, a written history.
Oracle bone inscriptions were an ancient form
of Chinese writing, usually engraved on animal bones
or turtle shells.
There are over 3000 documented characters from the era
of the Shang Dynasty, many of which are either still used
or similar to modern Chinese characters.
Considering the Shang Dynasty was in power
about 3,600 years ago,
we know an impressive amount about daily life
and key traditions because of archeological finds
such as the Oracle bones.
The Shang Dynasty was quite mobile
and oftentimes traveled to various islands
and shores on their conquests.
Upon each return, they would bring back seashells,
which were used as currency within their society.
They employed a futile system that brought great wealth
to nobility and subjugated peasants
and farmers to difficult lives.
The poor possessed little agency, but the military
and government were far too powerful at the time
for any peasant resistance to overthrow them.
The Shang leaders were a highly religious people
with high priests having heaps of influence over the lands.
These priests paid much attention to the death
and dying process as well as subsequent burials
and established a handful of rituals to preserve their power
and safety both on earth and in heaven.
Common practices in the dynasty included sacrificing humans
for good weather and fortune,
as well as burying slaves alive with their masters
to ensure their servitude in the afterlife.
The Shang Dynasty possessed a mighty military and workforce
conquering region after region
and building major walled cities
across the land as they went.
It was a restless time with constant battles
with various tribes as well as internal struggles
forcing the Shang to move their capital city five times.
But their skill in molding bronze weapons
and chariot wheels allowed them to squash opposing forces
and remain in power for around 600 years.
In a life that eerily resembled that of Xia ruler Jie,
the last Shang Emperor DiXin was overcome by temptations
and began living a life of pure debauchery.
He hosted massive orgies and inflicted cruel,
sadistic torture onto those who opposed him.
A handful of DiXin's family members were jailed for trying
to intervene in his life of partying,
and it is said that he had his own uncle's heart ripped out
of his chest as punishment.
It was in 1046 BCE when the Zhou of the Wei Valley
vassals of the Shang challenged the dynasty's reign
at the Battle of Muye.
The impoverished Chinese population was strongly in support
of the Zhou and many slaves being forced to fight
for the diminishing Shang Dynasty
defected to fight for the Zhou.
The members of the Shang army
who remained loyal were eviscerated in a bloody battle
that resulted in the deaths of around 50,000 Zhou soldiers
and hundreds of thousands of the Shang army.
After such a dismal effort, DiXin fled to his palace,
surrounded himself with his treasures
and set the building on fire, killing himself.
With such a decisive victory,
the Zhou believed they had inherited the mandate of heaven,
which would now become a major principle
of Chinese politics.
(suspenseful music)
The Zhou Dynasty was China's longest lasting dynasty
spanning 789 years from 1046 BCE to 256 BCE.
The events of those nearly eight centuries
were some of the most important happenings,
not only in Chinese history
but in the development of the world as we know it.
It was a period distinctly marked
by both invention and change.
Large scale irrigation systems transformed agriculture.
A new network of canals was built
to transport various goods across previously
unfathomably long distances.
Horseback riding became the standard for both travel
and military use.
News of silk production spread to Europe
and the Chinese moved past bronze
in favor of mastering iron.
Perhaps the most significant
of these newfound transitions was that of bronze to iron.
Europe in the Middle East were hundreds of years
behind the Zhou,
who could now cast iron using heat resistant clay
and furnaces and molds.
They used the liquified metal to mass produce weapons
and farming tools propelling both the military
and general society forward at an unprecedented rate.
With such a rapidly growing empire,
however, instability is sure to rear its head.
The Zhou Dynasty can be split up into two distinct periods,
the first of which is the Western Zhou.
During this time, the new found dynasty was operating
under the futile system, a pyramid-shaped power structure
where the power and land are concentrated in the royal
family and are distributed to local lords as is seen fit.
While this was functional for the Zhou,
for about two centuries,
their control instability began to diminish.
As the futile lords grew increasingly powerful
and self-serving, they began to revolt
and raided the capital of Haojing
and in a move that echoed their previous rulers,
constant capital movements,
the Zhou fled to their new capital city, Luoyang.
In everything but name and technicality,
the vassal states had essentially taken control of the land
and its governance.
This transition marked the beginning
of the Eastern Zhou period,
now recognized as having begun in 771 BCE.
This era yielded perhaps the most significant Chinese
philosophies of all time in three schools of thought,
Confucianism, legalism and Taoism.
Confucius or Master Kong was the most renowned ancient
Chinese philosopher
and his school of thought aimed to create a society
driven by respect, justice,
and a widespread desire for peace.
He was born as Kong Qiu in the Zou state of Lu.
His father Kong He was a commandment of the Lu's garrison,
but died when Confucius was only three years old,
leaving his mother to raise the boy alone in poverty.
He committed his life to education
and studied classic Chinese works at a school for commoners.
Now educated in literature, history and music,
he was married at 19 and raised a family.
Confucius's mother passed away just a short four years later
around the age of 40.
Confucius is said to have mourned her death
for three years.
He worked in a variety of low ranking government jobs
such as bookkeeping, intending to livestock
just to afford a dignified burial for his mother.
As he grew older, Confucius had built a considerable
reputation amongst the local ruling class.
The state of Lu was ruled by three ducal families
who appointed Confucius as the minister of criminal matters.
Confucius believed that there was a natural goodness
to humanity, and so the core of his philosophy
was to restore an ethically decrepit China's moral code
through social relationships.
After hearing of the wars, orgies, live burials
and disembowelment practiced by past rulers,
one can understand why he had grown increasingly discontent
with the decay of Chinese society.
He created a hierarchy of being to restore order
and insisted upon each citizen understanding
and adopting their respective role in this ladder.
This system is known as The Five Bonds
and describes the following relationships needed
to achieve social harmony.
Ruler to subject, husband to wife, father to son,
elder brother to younger brother
and friend to friend.
Confucius stress, the importance of respecting one's elders
and accepting their subjugation as a necessary step
to maintaining a civil society.
Family is at the basis of the five bonds
and its effects are still seen in modern day China.
The tradition of filial piety means
that parents are indebted to their children
in terms of offering care, safety and education,
and children are indebted to their parents
in terms of offering services, respect
and maintaining the family's honor through their actions.
A family is to uphold their morals as a unit
and the benevolent family unit will subsequently expand
to a greater Chinese society.
As China to Confucius was in essence one massive family.
His system called for the government to serve
and take care of its people as parents would their children.
While Confucius called for social harmony
through widespread benevolence,
another school of thought was developing in China
that directly opposed his teachings, Legalism.
Unlike Confucianism, legalism states
that people are inherently bad and require law
and punishment to be kept in order.
It was developed from the teachings of Han Feizi,
a Confucian reformer who believed
that an ordered society is a strict society
and a good citizen is one who allows themself
to be controlled.
It gained traction rivaling Confucianism
throughout the Zhou Dynasty.
The third major philosophy of the Zhou was Taoism,
which stressed the need for humanity
to reach a natural harmony with the universe.
Humans are supposed to follow the universe's will
and should avoid the tendency to go against its energy.
The classic yin and yang symbol encapsulates the philosophy
as one must accept the natural balance in forces
of the universe to achieve harmony.
Unlike Confucianism and legalism,
which called for different moral actions and behaviors
from the Chinese population, Taoism embraced inaction
and a philosophy that can aptly be summarized
as going with the flow.
These three philosophies are all incredibly
prevalent throughout Chinese history
and the contemporary state
and are the most important contribution
of the Zhou Dynasty's reign.
Because of the prominence
of philosophical development in this time,
the era and its products are recognized
as the hundred years of thought.
(suspenseful music)
At the same time as these developments
various states within the Zhou Dynasty
were beginning to declare their independence.
Former Dukes calling themselves kings
and insisted they were politically on par
with the Zhou King.
This period is known as the Warring States,
a time of unrest in which seven former vassal states
fought for the ultimate reign of China's lands.
They were the Qin, Han, Yan, Wei, Chu and Qi.
It was at this time that famed general
and strategist Sun Tzu wrote the "Art of War,"
the earliest documented work on military science and war.
Though the book covered a wide range of military tactics
and wartime philosophies
such as when to push your armies forward
and how to develop strategic flexibility in the face
of a widely unpredictable war,
it is no wonder why the "Art of War"
was birthed in this era.
War had transformed in China.
Battles became more sophisticated in the warring states
period with generals using strategy
and deceit to gain the upper hand.
With increased troop numbers and conscriptions
for males as young as 15 individual battles
also often dragged on for much longer than a handful of days
like the clashes of before with some stretching
as long as months or years.
The most powerful rising force of the country
during this time was the Qin.
They were led by Ying Zheng
or Qin Shi Huang, which literally translates
to first emperor of Qin.
They resided in a dangerous region of China
where a powerful military was in need for survival
and thus adopted the use of various weapons technologies
such as iron swords and crossbows.
The first of the seven kingdoms to collapse at the hands
of the Qin was Han.
They were the weakest of the bunch
and their territory rested right in the center
of ancient China, leaving them vulnerable
to attacks from all sides.
Though the alliances and mutual interests
of before protected them in the past,
the warring states period brought forth an every man
for himself attitude.
Ying Zheng and his men swiftly conquered the territory
and forced King An of Han surrender within a year.
Though there were far more worthy opponents
in the near future.
Ying Zheng's next target was the state of Zhao.
It was not the first time the two sides had battled.
Just a couple decades ago,
they had fought in the Battle of Changping,
which stands as one of the deadliest battles
in human history.
Records estimate 450,000 Zhao deaths
and 250,000 deaths on the Qin side.
Because of this decisive Qin victory,
the Zhao stayed with still weakened
when Ying Zheng marched his men passed their borders
to finish what had been started long ago.
Despite their decaying state, the Zhao possessed something
that the Qin did not.
A general by the name of Li Mu.
Li Mu had an impressive military reputation
for his previous deceits of massive enemy armies
and victories in numerous raids and battles.
When it became clear that the Qin had their sight set
on conquering the state of Zhao,
his attention too shifted to the western borders
to confront the newly ascended Ying Zheng.
Any progress troops made were immediately trumped
by Li Mu's tactics
and it became quite clear to Ying Zheng that so long
as Li Mu was alive, little progress would be made.
Failing on the battlefield, he targeted the general
through tricky political means.
He bribed figures of the Zhao courts
and sent spies to create disorder
within their governmental systems.
His goal was to create distrust between Youmiu,
a king of Zhao and General Li Mu.
He eventually succeeded
and the king became convinced that Li Mu
and his trusted associates
were planning a violent rebellion.
The general was relieved of his position and executed.
Zhao was swiftly conquered
after Li Mu's death.
As his replacement Zhao Cong was no match
for the blood thirsty Qin.
The state's capital Handan was taken over in 228, BCE
and Ying Zheng saw to it
that naive King Youmiu was too executed.
Though there were some self-proclaimed kings
and kingdoms of Zhao following this major loss,
the state was no longer a true threat to the Qin.
Any rebellion or descendant of a king that rose to power
was squashed over the course of the next handful of years
until the region as a whole was completely annexed.
After this success, Ying Zheng then directed his focus
to the kingdom of Yan,
well aware of the impending military force at his doorstep,
the crown prince Dan aimed to defeat the Qin in another way
by assassinating Ying Zheng himself,
he picked an assassin named Jing Ke
to kill Zheng in a suicide mission using a poison dagger
of the sharpest possible quality.
The plan was to approach the Qin court
and pretend to be a traitorous nobleman, begging for mercy.
He was to offer maps of Dukang,
the fertile farmland region that Zheng wanted to claim first
in his conquest as well as the head
of defective Qin General Huan Yi's head.
Before sticking the blade deep into Ying Zheng,
the dagger would be hidden along the side of the maps
so Jing Ke could strike as soon as he got close.
Huan Yi, the owner of the aforementioned head
required for this plan to work,
had fallen out of the Qin's good graces
and was seeking revenge for their dismissal,
causing the Qin to put a bounty
of 1000 gold pieces on his head.
After Jing Ke explained the plan,
the disgrace general agreed to commit suicide
by cutting his own throat for the sake
of collecting his head.
So long as it would mean that Ying Zheng would die
and the Qin would collapse,
he cut his own throat without protest.
With both the head and the maps now ready,
Jing Ke and his supremely nervous associate Qin Wuyang
traveled to present their gifts to Ying Zheng.
Qin Wuyang was so anxious when they reached the palace
that he entered a near paralyzed state
and was almost unable to move.
Jing Ke excused his skittish behavior
as nothing more than awe
and cultural shock as Qin Wuyang was, but a rural boy
who had never truly seen the world.
Despite Jing Ke's excuses Qin Wuyang was not allowed
to move up any further and the assassin
would now have to enter the court by his lonesome.
Jing Ke calmly approached King Zheng with a map scroll
and waited for it to be unrolled before grabbing the dagger
and lunging towards him.
King Zheng was startled by the sudden movement
and was able to slip out of his grasp, turning away
and running away from the attacker.
Mayhem ensued in the palace with the king narrowly surviving
by continuously running in circles behind a pillar.
The armed guards were all but stationed outside
and his ceremonial sword was too long
to be pulled out quickly enough
to defend himself against Jing Ke.
So all he could do was hope that someone would intervene
before the assassin closed in.
Luckily for Ying Zheng, a royal physician stepped forward
and hurled his medicine bag at Jing Ke,
slowing him down just long enough for the King
to unsheath his blade, he stabbed Jing Ke in the leg,
prompting the injured assassin
to throw his dagger in a last gasp attempt
to kill his target,
he missed and was stabbed eight more times by Ying Zheng.
In his dying moments, the assassin taunted the king
with obscene gestures until both he
and the now fleeing Qin Wuyang were executed by the guards.
The attempt had failed horribly
and had only created an angrier, more obsessive Ying Zheng.
He and his army invaded Yan in 226 BCE
and quickly conquered the capital, Jicheng.
In an effort to earn the king of Qin's forgiveness,
a now desperate King Xi of Yan executed his own son,
the Crown Prince Dan as an apology
for the assassination attempt.
He sent the head of his boy to Ying Zheng,
which postponed the complete annexation of Yan
for a small handful of years
before the Qin returned to destroy them once and for all
in 222 BCE.
Ying Zheng began his attacks on the states
of Wei and Chu at the same time.
Fearing that one state may take advantage of the fact
that the Qin were solely focused on the other
and catch the Qin armies off guard.
Two of Ying Zheng's most trusted generals,
a father son duo by the names of Wang Jian
and Wang Ben launched simultaneous attacks on the two states
in 225 BCE.
While Wang Jian began the Qin conquest
of the incredibly large and powerful Chu his son Wang Ben
led an army of 600,000 men
to conquer 10 cities along the northern border of Wei,
thereby guarding their flank.
Wei crumbled fairly easily after Wang Ben
cleverly redirected the waters of the Yellow River
to flood the capital of Daliang.
100,000 people, many of which were civilians were killed
in the flooding, the king surrendered,
allowing for all the Qin manpower to be focused
on the powerful Chu.
Their initial attacks on the Chu had not been particularly
successful with the Qin army being pushed back and repelled.
Wang Jian was brought out of retirement two years
after the initial seizures
with an army three times larger than before
and the capital city was taken, the king was captured
and the state was annexed leaving only one state
to be captured, Qi.
In 221 BCE, Ying Zheng's men faced very little pushback
and conquered the kingdom within the same year.
When the Qin arrived at the capital city,
the king of Qi simply surrendered the land without a fight.
The warring states had all been conquered
and thus began the Qin Dynasty
ruled under the iron fist of Ying Zheng.
(suspenseful music)
Though they displayed great promise
and power in the warring states period leading Ying Zheng
to proclaim that his dynasty would rule
for 10,000 generations.
The Qin's dynastic cycle was relatively short lift,
lasting approximately 15 years from 221 BCE to 206 BCE.
Despite this, their effects proved to be very important
and durable across the following centuries.
The name China comes from Qin.
In contrast with a feudalist Zhou
whose decentralization ultimately led
to the dynasty's downfall.
The Qin enacted an intense centralization
and subjugation of the state citizens.
Ying Zheng's main efforts included registering each citizen
with a government directing the flow of taxes
to the state instead of futile lords
and dividing the land into provinces.
Each one governed by an appointed official
acting as an appendage of his ruling.
He also aimed to standardize currencies,
writing systems and weights.
While these changes were primarily for the sake
of making the population more manageable
and controllable, they contributed to the creation
of a culturally homogenous Chinese identity
that was previously unseen throughout the country's history.
China had become a united empire
and Ying Zheng, its first true emperor.
The Qin were notorious for their cruelty
and harsh punishments.
As legalists, they believed people were born evil
and that the only way to sustain a civilized society
was to utilize ghastly criminal punishments
and deter potentially disobedient citizens
solely through fear.
Ying Zheng needed everyone in China to understand
that he and he alone ruled the land.
Governmental workers and military personnel
were also subjected to collective punishments
to holding entire labor groups accountable for their work.
If one man neglected his duties, it would come at the cost
of the entire collective's wellbeing.
(dramatic music)
The life of a peasant under the Qin
and an ancient China in general was very taxing.
Peasants worked long, straining hours typically
in one of two fields, farming or silk weaving.
Entertainment was used to relieve the stress
of long working days.
Theater and dance were very popular
and formerly military training games such as Cuju,
a game similar to Hacky sack were adopted to pass the time.
The Qin State was a patriarchal society
and life could be very difficult for women.
They primarily stayed home to tend to the children and look
after the household and had little to no say
in marital issues, land acquisition or sales
or daily local proceedings.
Peasants did not particularly like the emperor detesting him
for his cruel punishments and adoption of legalism.
(pleasant music)
It was not just his own population
that Ying Zheng had to fear.
Nomadic tribes, particularly the Xiongnu
who are believed to be the predecessors
to the Huns continuously terrorized
the northern Qin borders.
Armed horsemen would launch fierce intrusions on China's
outskirts highlighting the Qin's need
for strengthened borders.
This led to the most significant construction effort
of the Qin Dynasty, a Great Wall.
This wasn't the same Great Wall of China we know today
though parts of the incredible architectural feat
are still visible today.
Sections of the Great Wall had already been built
tracing back to the fifth century BCE.
Though Qin Shi Huang was the first to think
of uniting all of the existing pieces
to form one Great Wall.
Peasants who were deemed lazy
or unproductive in their farming
or market jobs were oftentimes sent to work on the wall.
Transporting materials was very difficult,
so the wall was mainly built out
of whatever resources were readily available
in each particular area.
In mountainous regions, the wall was made
of mountain stones while rammed earth
was used in the plains.
Though the Qin did not view the wall
as a permanent solution,
the project would be continued over many successive
centuries to form the Great Wall we know today.
Though he had conquered the warring states
at just the age of 38,
survived three assassination attempts throughout the course
of his rule and now fortified the state of Qin.
There was one enemy,
Ying Zheng could not defeat, death itself.
(calm music)
When Ying Zheng reached middle age, he became obsessed
with his own mortality and sought out various elixirs
and potions to extend his life.
He sent alchemists and explorers on quests
around the Pacific to find the legendary island
of Penglai whose mountain supposedly held
the elixir of immortality.
Ying Zheng was so desperate
that he could not understand he was being conned
primarily by Xu Fu, the leader of these expeditions.
On the first voyage, Xu Fu was sent with 3000 virgin boys
and girls and 60 boats,
but of course returned empty handed
as the island was mythological.
Possibly fearing the consequences of a failed mission,
Xu Fu in the explorers that returned from the voyage claimed
that their passage was obstructed by a giant sea creature.
Xu Fu requested a troop of archers for their next effort
to defeat the creature and move forward with their conquest.
Ying Zheng obliged and once again
provided everything he requested.
Though Xu Fu and his crews never returned from the trip,
what exactly happened is still unknown today,
though the most popular theory is that Xu Fu
simply sailed to Japan and colonized it.
Growing increasingly paranoid and desperate,
Ying Zheng began ingesting potions
his own alchemists had created.
It is at this time that a series of now famed book burnings
and live burials took place
as Ying Zheng had grown utterly mad.
Wanting to erase all history
and ideologies he saw as diminishing to his reign
and the Qin Dynasty Ying Zheng had 460 Confucian scholars
buried alive and destroyed many of their texts
and Mass book burnings,
which were the first documented book burnings
in human history.
Soon thereafter, in an ironic twist, Ying Zheng's quest
for eternal life led to his death at the age of 49.
The concoctions he was supplied with
by his alchemist contained high levels of mercury,
which killed the emperor by poisoning.
Before the emperor's death,
he had commanded the construction
of a grand mausoleum to house his body.
An underground Acropolis flooded with artifacts, monuments,
and thousands of clay warriors to follow Ying Zheng
into the afterlife was accidentally uncovered
by a group of farmers in 1974 AD.
The scale and detail of each soldier shocked archeologists.
No two warriors had the same facial features
and just like a real army, they were divided
by military rank in battle formation.
Each one was equipped with a real weapon
that had never been used in battle.
There are clear signs of mass production simply
to arm the Terracotta warriors with new undamaged weapons.
Ying Zheng had clearly decided
that if he could not conquer death,
he would conquer the afterlife.
There is still plenty of mystery
regarding the Terracotta warriors.
We don't know who exactly built the grand mausoleum
or why there is no documented history of its construction.
It is estimated that it took over 700,000 workers to build.
Because of this enigma and the grand scale of the findings,
Ying Zheng's Terracotta army is referred to
as the eighth wonder of the world.
Following the emperor's passing his associate,
Li Si kept his death a secret with the hopes
of snatching power away from Ying Zheng's eldest son
and successor, Fusu.
Li Si sought to present him from gaining any more political
might than he already had.
As Fusu had ties with a general that rivaled Li Si in court,
the pair would surely remove him from power
if they were in control.
Li Si brought the king's corpse back to the capitol
and a merchant caravan of rotting fish
to mask the scent of death.
He then created a fake document supposedly written
by Ying Zheng commanding both Fusu
and the general to commit suicide.
The plan worked and with both of their targets dead.
Another son of the emperor took power.
That son was Qin Er Shi who quickly proved
to be far less capable than his widely feared father.
He was incredibly self-indulgent and childish.
Killing however Li Si would not take power,
Qin Er Shi would suspect him and others of corruption
and treason.
Li Si was sentenced to execution by death
of a thousand cuts.
This method of execution involved the condemned person
being subjected to a series of cuts
or slices to various parts of their body.
The intent was not to cause immediate death
but to prolong the suffering of the condemned.
Additionally, to top it off, his entire family
to the third degree was executed.
Quickly capitalizing on the weakened state
mass revolts began.
Liu Bang, a peasant under the Qin Dynasty
spearheaded a major uprising
and gained control of the land
after a fierce clash known as the Battle of Gaixia
in which over 100,000 men were either killed
or taken prisoner.
Thus began the incredibly successful Han Dynasty.
(suspenseful music)
With his victory, Liu Bang sees the title of emperor,
changed his name to Gaozu and established the capital
of the new state of Han in Changan.
It is one of the only parts of the destroyed Qin state
with a surviving palace making for a fairly easy decision.
Changan is where the Han's namesake comes from
and the period in which it served
as the state capital is known as the Western Han,
lasting from 206 BCE to nine AD.
Today over 90% of Chinese people identify
as ethnically Han making up nearly 20% of the world.
The Han were the world's most populous state
and were contemporaries of the Roman empire.
After gaining power, Gaozu cemented Chinese policies
that would last for thousands of years.
Coming from peasantry himself,
he quickly saw to replace many of the rulings
and precedency saw to be unfair to the commoner.
Taxes were heavily cut, especially in regions
who were particularly affected by the wars.
Many slaves were freed as well.
Confucianism was brought back
as the main philosophical school of thought
and was taught in the state's new Imperial Academy.
Family loyalty and virtue were once again the main pillars
of Chinese society, not fear or punishment.
Gaozu also established the system of civil service
to prevent lazy and unqualified men from serving
in important political positions.
The ruling class was based on merit
and education rather than familial connections.
This governmental system would last all the way
until 1912 AD, nearly 2000 years later.
Although Gaozu and his Han state had secured power,
the empire was far from safe.
The same nomadic Xiongnu
who threatened the Qin were still a dangerous threat
and the loyalty of many Han generals
was questionable at best.
Following a series of humiliating defeats at the hands
of the Xiongnu, Gaozu made peace with the tribes
and agreed to pay tribute.
Wine and women were gifted to the Xiongnu on an annual basis
to preserve the peace.
Gaozu died in 195 BCE, which started a power struggle
to claim the throne.
Though Hui, the second son of Gaozu became the next emperor,
the true ruler of Han was Hui's mother.
Gaozu's empress consort Empress Lu.
She had murdered several of his sons to ensure her power
following Gaozu's death.
Though her most famous killing
was that of Gaozu's favorite mistress, Lady Qi.
Lady Qi also had children with Gaozu
and Lu did not desire any competition.
Summa Chin, a historian from the Han Dynasty wrote
that Empress Lu cut off Lady Qi's hands and feet,
plucked out her eyes, burned her ears,
gave her a potion to drink, which made her mute
and had her thrown into the privy calling her human swine.
Emperor Hui was so disgusted
and demoralized by his mother's murderous actions
that he essentially handed over the ruling power to her.
He lived a short life of drinking
and sex until his death in 188 BCE at the age of 22.
A handful of rulers gained
and lost power over the following decades,
maintaining a relatively solid sense
of peace and prosperity given the ongoing conflict
with the Xiongnu.
In 141 BCE, Emperor Wu became the leader of Han
and would rule for 57 years up until 87 BCE.
It was also at this time that relations
with the Xiongnu had reached a boiling point
and full fledged war began in 133 BCE.
A handful of Han men were sent West during the war
to seek out potential allies of the Xiongnu.
Silk trade in China was being hindered by the tribes
and the Hans sought alliances with Western peoples
to fight the Xiongnu.
What they brought back was knowledge about civilizations,
trade and the economies of the western world,
India and the Middle East.
A trade route called the Silk Road was established,
which connected all the way from China
to the Mediterranean Sea.
The names Silk Road came from the Greek word
for China, Seres, which translates to the land of silk.
China would come to rely on the Silk Road
for trade For more than 1500 years.
The Silk Road allowed for unprecedented cultural exchange,
which led to the introduction of Buddhism in China,
though whether or not Emperor Wu was aware of the religion
during his time is unknown today.
The Han territory grew considerably at this time of war
as they won many major battles against the Xiongnu tribes.
The dynasty expanded south into regions
of modern day Vietnam and Myanmar.
Despite their victories,
the Han treasury was depleted from all the resources
poured into the conflict.
Hundreds of thousands of soldiers died
while peasants were heavily taxed to fund the war,
bringing forth a period of rebellion and instability.
(calm music)
In the year nine AD, a rising politician by the name
of Wang Mang capitalized on the shaky state of Han
and established the very short-lived Xin Dynasty.
All of the empire's land was seized by Wang Mang
and redistributed to the peasantry,
which earned him the historical nickname
of China's socialist Emperor.
Policies such as this were not received well
by the wealthier citizens.
The empire was left in shambles
after a series of natural disasters
and a famine creating yet another period
of instability and rebellion.
Just like in the case of the preceding Western Han,
the Xin Dynasty also failed
to extinguish the Xiongnu threat at the northern borders
of China leading to the treasury being depleted once again.
The people of Xin had had enough.
There were two major rebellion groups
that gained prominence at this time.
The Red Eyebrows and the Lulin.
The name Red Eyebrows came to be as the rebels painted
their eyebrows red to distinguish themselves
from those who supported the government and ruling class.
The imperial armies were defeated time
and time again by the various rebel parties
and Wang Mang was killed in battle in 23 AD.
Though the Red Eyebrows continuously defied odds
and showed great promise,
they collapsed after falling out of the public's favor
because of their disorganization
and lack of direction in restoring peace to China,
they were viewed as a mob like presence
due to their brutal treatment of local populations
and desecration of Han graves.
The Red Eyebrows were trapped in a state
of constant disarray and frequent deaths
towards the tail end of their fighting years.
The Red Eyebrows surrendered
to Liu Xiu, one of 11 self-proclaimed emperors at the time
who had been involved with a contemporary Lulin rebellion
against Wang Mang.
Liu Xiu or Emperor Guangwu was a very benevolent
and pardoned the Red Eyebrows
before beginning his conquest of the entire empire.
Over the course of a decade, he squashed all
of the other self-proclaimed emperors
until he alone claimed the throne.
(calm music)
The city of Changan had been destroyed in the rebellions.
So Guangwu established the new Han capital in Luoyang.
This period is known as the Eastern Han,
the latter half of the long withstanding Han Dynasty.
Under Guangwu taxes were lowered
and the emperor saw to it that the quality
of life improved for the peasantry.
Over 100 academic institutes were established
using government funds to ensure a well-educated
future ruling class.
Guangwu continued to promote Confucianism
and set up a system in which local governors would nominate
young men who properly embodied Confucian virtues
for governmental roles.
With an excellent basis set
under the dynasty's first emperor,
the Eastern Han entered a new golden age over the first
and second centuries.
The economy was thriving.
Educational policies were as thorough as they'd ever been,
and the military was incredibly powerful.
CrossBows allowed the Han to kill their enemies
from a safe distance and durable iron axes
and swords greatly improved
their close range combat abilities.
Resistance in Vietnam and Korea were destroyed,
and the Xiongnu tribes within the Han borders were defeated
when they once again turned against the empire.
The role of the emperor became much less respected
at this time as the civil servant class
became the most dominant members of Chinese hierarchies.
Paper was also invented at this time,
allowing for their ideas to be shared much easier
than in days past.
Emperors were put in place
and removed as the civil servants saw fit,
but were usually more concerned
with their lavish lifestyles than their duties at the helm
of the empire anyway.
This absence of centralized leadership led to worse policies
that erase taxes and allowed for another famine in China,
and so another powerful resistance group
rose from the ashes,
the Yellow Turban Rebellion led by Taoist Zhang Jue
who claimed that the Han Dynasty was already
on its last legs.
The rebels began attacking government offices in pillaging
villages in 184.
Though they ultimately failed to bring down the Han,
the empire was indeed on its way out.
In order to defeat the Yellow Turbans,
the bureaucracies forced hand gave significant amounts
of power back to the nobility who split up
as individual warlords each
with their own controlled regions.
(calm music)
Another period of warring states began
until the last emperor of Han was dethroned
and only three major kingdoms remained.
Wei, Wu and Shu Han.
Shu Han the least populated state was the first to go.
They surrendered the way after exhausting their powers
fighting Wu.
Despite their now massive chunk
of territory the Wei went next.
They were taken over out of nowhere
by a powerful clan called Jin, who then defeated Wu
the last of the three kingdoms in 280.
This meant that China was reunited and a new dynasty began.
Emperor Wu of Jin was the first to rule the Jin Dynasty
and built a legacy of indulgence, waste and sexual prowess.
He quickly became far more focused on feasting
and having sex in his harems than fulfilling
any of his political duties.
In 281, 5,000 women were brought from the palace
of conquered Wu Emperor's son Zhao to his own in Luoyang.
With all the beautiful women,
now at his disposal, Emperor Wu was overwhelmed
with a choice and had difficulty deciding
whom he should have sex with.
His famous solution to this problem was to ride
around in a goat drawn cart.
Wherever the goat stopped, Wu would get out
and have sex with whichever woman was there.
Some of the women began leaving bamboo leaves
and salt outside their bedrooms,
hoping to lure the goats into stopping at their rooms.
Wu was utterly sex crazed using this goat drawn method
nearly every day for eight years.
He went so far as to criminalize new marriages
until he was finished picking his concubines
to ensure he could sleep with any woman he desired.
When Emperor Wu died in 290,
the Jin Dynasty got caught up in a civil war
known as the War of the Eight Princes after his death.
Numerous factions wanted to gain power,
now that there was an opening
and started bringing in nomadic tribes
such as the Xiongnu to assist them.
This backfired with the nomadic people
turning on the Jin Dynasty and claiming the north region
of the empire.
The Jin accordingly moved their capital south to Jiankang.
What ensued was countless changes in ruling families in both
the barbarian run north as well as the Jin south.
Both regions were incredibly unstable
until the Sui Dynasty was erected in 581
and unified the Empire once again in 589.
(gentle music)
While the Sui Dynasty was very short-lived,
they acted as a very important turning point
in Chinese history.
They reinstated the rule of China's ethnic Han
and began efforts to culturally assimilate the barbarians
that had migrated into China.
Confucianism and Buddhism were heavily fostered
at this time.
As the Emperor Wen of Sui had been raised
and taught by a Buddhist nun.
It was a difficult time to be in power, north of the Sui,
in the central steps, the Turks were rising to power
and becoming a formidable force,
which made expansion difficult for the dynasty.
While the empire was relatively stable for a short period
of time, it began to deteriorate very fast
because of the evil Emperor Yang Guang's
constant misuse of resources.
Yang Guang was obsessed with construction projects and war.
Many peasants worked to death rebuilding the Great Wall,
and he sent millions of soldiers
to die in his attempted conquest of Goguryeo,
which is modern day Korea.
The last attack on Goguryeo had been an utterly pathetic
failure, resulting in a 90% casualty rate
for the Sui troops and a relatively tiny one
for the Goguryeo.
This all spurred more rebellions
as the peasantry was fed up.
A father and son duo became the two most important figures
in China during this time of resistance.
The Father Li Yuan had been born in 566
in the Three Kingdoms period.
Li Yuan had many familial connections
to the throne with many family members close to the emperor,
though that did not exactly make things easier for him.
Emperor Yang Guang was evil, tyrannical and brutal
and offered little help to Li Yuan.
His son, Li Shimin was a very bold military leader
who successfully fought against the Turks
on multiple occasions.
He famously tricked his opponents
by bringing in excessive amount of flags
and drums to the battlefield to make them retreat,
thinking that the Sui army was much larger
than it actually was.
Though both Li Yuan and Li Shimin were initially loyal
to the Sui Dynasty throughout this time of war,
it became increasingly clear to both of them
that the empire was in decline.
Li Yuan was very sacred and timid
and did not wish to turn on their leaders
considering the number of family members
that were close to the throne.
If Yang Guang caught wind of rebellion, Li Yuan's family,
including his daughter, Pingyang, would surely be executed.
Li Shimin, however convinced him to join a band
of rebels since death was already on his doorstep anyways.
Yang Guang had begun killing his own generals
who were not doing a good enough job
of defeating the rebels,
and Li Yuan was up next on the chopping block.
With a little left to lose, it was now or never,
or else it would be Li Yuan's head.
He spread rumors that the emperor was planning another
invasion of Goguryeo that would require even more soldiers.
Still fiercely angry about the last invasions,
the peasants hit a breaking point.
They did not want to die fighting
for a clearly inferior army in a war
that would not benefit them.
This allowed Li Yuan and Li Shimin to garner more support
for their rebellion and recruit soldiers.
After Li Yuan ensured the safety of his family members
through replaying secret messages, encouraging them
to get away from the capitol,
the campaign to take the capitol of Changan began.
There were many doubts about the future of the rebels
as there were many other rebel groups as well
as the Turks in the north vying for power.
Li Yuan was very weak-minded and afraid.
Though Li Shimin was successful once again in encouraging
him to saddle up and fight the Turks and other rebel groups.
The Army grew significantly in size
and the Li family was reunited.
Surprisingly, Pingyang had formed a rebellion group
of her own, which was 70,000 strong.
The Capitol was taken in a major attack
with all their forces and Li Yuan snatched power away
from Emperor Yang Guang's grandson.
The emperor himself was many miles away at this time
in Eastern China,
but could not escape his long overdue fate.
His own officials murdered him,
and the Sui Dynasty was without a doubt, over.
While the Sui rule was indeed very brief ending in 618,
father and son Li Yuan and Li Shimin had set the stage
for a new golden age of Chinese history.
(gentle music)
The Tang Dynasty is viewed as one of the best eras
of Chinese history.
The empire was stable.
The population grew from 50 to 80 million people
and many scientific
and cultural advancements ballooned during this time.
The rain is viewed so favorably that all these years later,
ethnic Chinese people refer
to the neighborhoods in Western metropolitan areas,
commonly known as Chinatown, as Tang Ren Jie,
which translates to the Tang people street.
However, such good fortune did not come easy early on.
While Li Yuan and his family had defeated the Sui,
there still remained a great many threats
to his future reign.
Two dynasties were established to the east of the Tang
and the Turks were still the major threat in the north.
Capitalizing on all the chaos of war that comes with rising
and falling dynasties,
the Turks had been slowly creeping into mainland China.
Li Yuan declared himself the Tang Dynasty's first emperor
and Li Shimin was given the role of Prime Minister,
the eldest of Li Yuan sons, Li Jiancheng,
who had helped in the rebellion
as a key general was named Crown Prince
and the heir apparent,
even though he did not have the same glorious military
reputation that Li Shimin did.
This made Li Jiancheng feel uneasy
and overshadowed in his role as Crown Prince.
An intense rivalry began between the two brothers,
Li Jiancheng, and another brother Li Yuanji
began preparing a private army
to stage a coup and assassinate Li Shimin.
Yuanji supported Li Jiancheng
as he wanted to be crown prince.
Once Li Jiancheng became emperor,
unfortunately for the pair, word got out fairly quickly.
Li Shimin received word from his soldiers
and Li Jiancheng's plan was foil.
He was put under house arrest by his father.
Prompting an associate of Li Jiancheng to formally rebel.
Li Shimin was commanded to go out
and kill the rebel leader
and was promised the title of Crown Prince
upon his return to Changan.
It didn't take much of an effort on Li Shimin's part
to kill Li Jiancheng's associate.
His own band of rebels killed him at the site
of the Imperial army.
Meanwhile, the weak willed Li Yuan was caving in
and easing up on his son back in the capitol.
Li Jiancheng was very close with his father's concubines
who would often do his bidding
and try to rehabilitate his image.
At Li Jiancheng's request,
the women successfully convinced the emperor
to go easy on his son, likely stressing the importance
of family in such trying times.
When Li Shimin returned, he was shocked to learn
that Li Jiancheng would be keeping his title
of Crown Prince, but there was little time
to process his father's ridiculous leniency
and the forgiveness of his young brother.
The Turks had moved just outside of Changan.
Li Shimin had taken charge and organized a treaty
involving regular payments to the imposing forces
just two years prior in 622 AD.
Though the threat was becoming more
and more dangerous as they pushed closer to the capitol,
Li Shimin approached the Khagan, the leader of the Turks
outside of the city
and declared that if they had become dissatisfied
with their previous agreement,
then he and the Khagan should dual to the death.
The Khagan was uncertain of what tricks Li Shimin
had up his sleeve and withdrew his back to their camp.
Li Shimin and his army remained incredibly close by
and after a night of rainfall sent a message
detailing the Tang Army's advantageous position,
as well as his analysis of how the Turks bows
would likely be deteriorated by now.
The people of the Eurasian steps
used composite bows made of wood and animal horns,
which did not fare well during rainy seasons.
Outsmarted by the witty Li Shimin,
the Khagan agreed once again
to the Tang's proposed peace treaty
and retreated without a drop of bloodshed on either side.
Upon Li Shimin's return, it was all the more clear
that he would be the next great leader of the Tang Dynasty.
This made Li Jiancheng all the more desperate
to kill his brother and secure power.
Li Jiancheng hosted a banquet in his residence
for his brothers Li Shimin and Li Yuanji.
He had poisoned Li Shimin's wine.
Li Shimin was in such a horrible state that he needed
to be carried home and barely survived the ordeal
after vomiting blood all night.
Li Yuan couldn't bear to witness the rivalry of his sons
and informed Li Shimin
that he would be dividing the empire into two halves
to avoid further conflict.
Li Shimin was promised the rule of the Eastern half,
which he protested, but it was no use.
His stubborn father had already made up his mind
that a vision failed to quell the rivalry.
In the West Li Jiancheng and Li Yuanji
continued plotting the murder of Li Shimin.
In the East, Li Shimin was continuously encouraged
by his cabinet to strike first and kill his brothers.
Though despite everything, he was still hesitant
to plot an attack on his own family.
When the Turks attacked once again in the summer of 626,
the two conniving brothers saw the disorder as a chance
to kill Li Shimin once and for all.
Backed by Li Jiancheng, Li Yuanji approached his father
and asked to command the army against the invading Turks.
Though the emperor was a bit hesitant
as he initially intended on sending the decorated Li Shimin
to resist them, he agreed.
Much to Li Jiancheng's delight, Li Yuanji was able to turn
many of Li Shimin's associates against him
while organizing his army.
Those who had one sided with Li Shimin
and encouraged him to attack his brothers had given up
on trying to convince him and were now looking
after their own lives instead.
Because of this victory, the eldest brother
promised Li Yuanji the title of Crown Prince
once he became emperor,
which would be any day now should their plan work.
The pair decided that after they killed Li Shimin,
they would finally gain power by forcing their father
to give up the throne.
Shortly after, however, Li Jiancheng
and Li Yuanji were summoned to their father's court.
Li Shimin had submitted a message to his father claiming
that both Li Jiancheng and Li Yuanji had been sleeping
with many of the emperor's concubines.
When the two brothers conferred on what to do,
Li Yuanji argued that they should fake illnesses and not go,
but Li Jiancheng pulled rank
and decided that they should both go to try
and smooth out the situation to the best of their abilities.
What ensued is what is now known
as the Shen Wu Gate incident.
Upon their arrival at the Shen Wu Gate,
which served as an entrance to the Palace City in Changan,
they began to feel like something was wrong.
They realized they were walking into a coup d'état
and immediately tried to retreat,
but by then it was far too late.
Li Shimin bound through the gates on horseback
and called them over, which prompted Li Yuanji
to draw his bow, but he was far too slow
compared to the quick Li Shimin.
Li Shimin quickly drew his own weapon
and fired an arrow straight into Li Jiancheng,
killing him instantly, a chase ensued with Li Yuanji
trying to escape the scene
before Li Shimin could kill him too.
In the chaos, however, Li Shimin's horse became overwhelmed
throwing the middle brother off its back.
Li Yuanji pounced on this opportunity
and tried to strangle the fallen Li Shimin to death
with his own bow string.
Just in the nick of time, Yuchi Jingde, an associate
of Li Shimin arrived and shouted at Li Yuanji.
Li Yuanji tried to flee on foot
but was promptly killed by Yuchi's arrows.
Overwhelmed by the situation Li Yuan agreed
that power would be handed over
to the surviving son, Li Shimin
and that the opposing forces should submit to his rule.
The male heirs of both Li Jiancheng
and Li Yuanji were promptly executed To prevent
further destabilization.
The two power hungry brothers had started a battle
that they could not finish
and it ultimately came at the cost of their family's lives.
Li Yuan retired to a more ceremonious role
while Li Shimin was declared emperor.
Though there was little time to celebrate his new role,
the Turks had not stopped their advances
to allow the House of Li to play out their family dramas.
They had already reached the edges of Changan.
Li Shimin opted for a nonviolent confrontation once again
as he thought that Khagan's selfish and cruel treatment
of his inferiors would eventually break apart
the Turkic Khaganate and provide an easier opportunity
to attack sometime in the future.
The Tang Dynasty was too vulnerable
to face them head on right now,
so Li Shimin simply renegotiated their peace treaty
and agreed to pay tribute for the time being.
In the meantime, the new emperor focused on building a basis
of trust and free speech within his cabinet.
He picked members based on their talent and intellect
and even allowed those who had served as advisors
to his treacherous brothers
to join his ranks if he thought it was
what was best for the empire.
Li Shimin encouraged his officials to speak honestly
and critique his rule,
and so together they worked on improving the domestic
conditions of the Empire before launching any attack
on the Turks.
China entered a very prosperous age with Li Shimin,
now known as Emperor Taizong of Tang
at the helm of the empire.
He is recognized today as the absolute greatest
of the hundreds of emperors who came
and went throughout Chinese history
and an argument could be made that China was the wealthiest
and most powerful state in the world
during this second golden age,
but why exactly was that the case?
Relations between the Turks and the Tang remained stable
as Emperor Taizong worked on the living conditions
of his subjects,
but an opportunity to capitalize on the inner turmoil
of the Khaganate rose quicker
than the emperor thought it would.
Political discord was caused by the Khagan's poor treatment
of the tribes that fell under his command,
and a handful of them broke away from him,
which made the ruler furiously persecute them
with all his might.
War broke out between the various tribes
and in 628, a lesser Khagan by the name
of Ashina Shibobi requested Emperor Taizong's help
in defeating the selfish ruler.
He obliged and they successfully defeated
the Eastern Khaganate leader by the year 630.
The members of the Turkic tribes
that fought against the Khagan nominated Emperor Taizong
to rule over them marking him the first emperor
to hold the title of both Chinese Emperor
and the Khan of Heaven.
Even after Taizong's death in the year 649,
the Tang Dynasty steadily expanded while becoming more
and more cosmopolitan in the cities
such as Changan, the Capitol was the world's most
populated city at the time.
With approximately 2 million inhabitants, Buddhism, Taoism,
and Confucianism all flourished under Tang rule.
With monasteries and temples popping up all around
the major cities, many famous paintings, poetry
and pottery were created as art became more of a steeple
of Chinese culture.
Military efforts were made back into Korea and Vietnam
and the Empire took control of many Western lands as well,
which connected them more strongly
to other major civilizations in the Mediterranean
and the Middle East.
They quickly swelled
and became the most powerful state in Southeast Asia
as a whole.
Precisely because of the emphasis on improving
the domestic state as opposed to spending
all of the empire's resources.
When an empire is stable within it is far easier
to expand outward.
The Golden Age reached its peak early into the later
Emperor Xuanzong reign, which began in 712,
though the latter half of his time in power
saw the decline of the Tang.
In 736, historian, musician and politician,
Li Linfu was named the Tang chief minister
and began increasing his power
as Emperor Xuanzong became less
and less interested in fulfilling his role as Emperor.
Li Linfu had many of his court enemies executed
and began introducing a series of policies
that were very damaging to the empire.
One major policy that would come back to bite the Tang
was that the military governors must not be Chinese.
The de facto ruler Li Linfu believed
that there would be less trivial politics involved
in the governmental process
and that none of his rivals would be able to take power.
One of the generals selected was a Turk by the name
of An Lushan who commanded an army
with over 150,000 soldiers in the Northeast.
He was viewed very favorably by both the emperor
and Li Linfu and rose the rinks very quickly,
even being named a prince.
However, after Li Linfu's death in 753,
An Lushan was steadily being edged out of his position
by political rivals in China,
recognizing that he had very little to lose,
he launched a rebellion against the dynasty
to try and claim power over the empire.
What followed was known as the An Lushan Rebellion,
one of the deadliest wars in human history.
In 755, An Lushan attacked the eastern capital of Luoyang
and declared himself to be the emperor
of the new Yan Dynasty after his victory,
he then set his sights on the capture
of the Tang Dynasty's western capital of Changan.
Despite their initial successes and rapidly growing army,
An Lushan's next major battle,
the siege of Yongqiu was a definitive victory for the Tang.
The Yongqiu was very militarily important
and was a big stepping stone
for An Lushan's push further south into China.
The Tang recognized this and 2000 men were sent
to besiege it and killed 20,000 Yan troops in the process.
The Yan men were now unable to advance
because of the Tang troops' defensive positions
along the Tang Pass,
but the tides turned due to inner turmoil
with the Tang Dynasty
as well as completely inept military judgment.
Orders were made for the Tang
to attack An Lushan's Yan army on open ground
and they suffered a very bitter defeat.
The path to the capital of Changan was now clear
for the Yan.
Catching wind of the impending threat,
Emperor Xuanzong decided to flee the capital,
an attempt to regroup in the province of Sichuan.
However, this was not realized so easily.
The emperor had brought much of his household court
and bodyguards with him
and chaos ensued his hunger induced anger and madness
along the difficult terrains of China's mountainous regions
resulted in the executions of members of the convoy.
Fearing a mutiny, the emperor was required to go along
with the demands of his soldiers
even when they desired the deaths of his family members.
While the emperor was forced to watch the strangulations
of his relatives in desolate mountain ranges,
a different kind of chaos was occurring in the capital
of Changan, thousands fled at the side of the rebels
who slashed their way through the city
and looted like there was no tomorrow.
Hundreds of thousands were killed in the bloody siege.
In August, Emperor Xuanzong had finally reached Sichuan,
where he abdicated and gave his son the throne.
The new emperor recruited mercenaries to oppose An Lushan
and they successfully prevented him
from expanding further south.
However, the internal turmoil of the self-proclaimed
Yan Dynasty helped the Tang more than anything else.
Fearing his constant state of violent paranoia,
An Lushan was murdered by his own son, An Qingxu
on January 29th, 757.
The ruler had grown increasingly cruel to his subjects
and flogged them whenever he pleased,
which caused his subordinates to turn on him,
especially when the obese tyrant's health
took a turn for the worse.
It is said that a horse was once crushed
under the unfathomable weight of An Lushan.
With his death, An Qingxu took over as leader of the Yan
and launched a lengthy siege on the city of Suiyang
resulting in one of the most disturbing battles
in Chinese history,
it could be said that both sides lost.
On the Tang side, mass cannibalism ensued as the inhabitants
of the besieged city resorted to eating the elderly women
and children after running out of provisions.
There remained only 400 Tang defenders of the city,
less than 1% of its initial population,
while the Yan did indeed eventually capture the city
after approximately eight months of battle,
they had suffered over a hundred thousand casualties
and wasted plenty of time and resources.
The Tang were able to reclaim the capitals of Changan
and Luoyang because of this disarray
and the Yan Dynasty began to burst at the seams
because of political turmoil.
The rebellion was put down in 763
and the Tang emerged victorious.
However, the Imperial government was far weaker
than they had been before this mess had begun
and the golden age of the Tang was undeniably over.
20% of the empire's population had died as a result
of the An Lushan rebellion
and the Tang never fully recovered from its effects.
Over the course of the ninth century,
the struggling dynasty lost much of its northern
and western territory to Turks
and the Tibetan empire who took advantage
of their vulnerable state,
the Tang were ruled by a line of poor emperors
during this time.
Massive groups of bandits became increasingly common,
ransacking cities and smuggling illicit goods
across the empire until full scale rebellions
reared their heads once again.
In 875, a disgruntled former salt smuggler
named Huang Chao started a peasant rebellion
with tens of thousands of soldiers and citizens.
His forces steadily pushed into the south of China,
massacring thousands of people along the way,
particularly merchants who they saw as sympathetic
to the Tang reign.
By 881, the capital of Changan had been captured
and Huang Chao declared himself emperor of the Daqi Dynasty.
Angry with the selfish and inept rich
and ruling class of China,
many of his reforms were focused
on confiscating their wealth,
but it did not take long for Huang Chao
to prove that he was no better at running an empire.
Unfortunately, for the self-proclaimed empire,
he was unable to arrange of food supply
to the concord capital.
The Tang Dynasty struck back with a series
of counter attacks under the command of General Zhu Wen.
Zhu Wen had been a general in none other than Huang Chao's
rebellion, but defected to the Tang Dynasty in 882.
With the help of Zhu Wen's strong leadership,
the government utilized alliances with a group
of Turkish tribes to drive Huang Chao
and his de facto dynasty out of the capital.
Huang Chao was killed in 884
and his legacy today is one of controversy.
Some, see him as a violent traitor
who committed many atrocities during his military campaign,
though others see him as a hero of the peasant rebellion
who was committed to ridding China of corruption
and wealth hoarding.
Whatever the true nature of Huang Chao may have been,
the damage he inflicted on the already weakened Tang Empire
was certainly irreparable.
The central government had lost much of its power
and no longer had a solidified army.
(gentle music)
As a side note, while the ninth century was indeed
disastrous for the Tang Dynasty, an important invention
that would sheep modern history was created in 850 AD
within the empire's borders, gunpowder.
An unknown monk, an alchemist was trying to invent
a substance that would heal ailments
and prolong one's lifespan.
In doing so, he mixed the following proportions,
75% saltpetre, 15% charcoal and 10% sulfur.
The result was plenty of scorched skin
within the group of monks who were present
and the house they resided in was burnt to the ground.
Gunpowder was considered one of the four great inventions
of China alongside paper making, printing and the compass.
Although the invention would be utilized more efficiently
in coming years, particularly with the rise
of the Song Dynasty in the 10th century,
history shows that it was Chinese monks under the Tang
who discovered the substance,
no matter what other dynasties or western empires may claim.
(dramatic music)
Without a widespread military application though,
the newfound substance did not make a difference
in the fate of the declining Tang.
An era known as the Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period
was on its way and would be marked by various warlords
and regimes staking claims for power across China.
The period is notoriously difficult to follow
because of how messy and unstable the region was.
With constant assassinations, new and shattered alliances
and factions breaking apart,
the situation was constantly changing just like it had
during the warring states period.
This name Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period came to be
as five regimes successfully ruled over the northern region
of China.
While 10 independent states were established
in southern and western China.
Though these states were relatively stable
during their existence, they were not as significant
as the five major dynasties.
The first of these five dynasty rulers
was the warlord Zhu Wen
though he had helped the Huang Chao Rebellion
and then the Tang government,
Zhu Wen was now looking to help himself.
In 904, he executed the emperor of Tang
and made the dead ruler's 13-year-old boy serve
as a puppet emperor.
Only three years later in 907, he usurped the throne
and named himself emperor of the Liang,
the first of the five dynasties that ruled in this era.
However many other warlords did not accept his rule
and established their own countries.
One of these men was Li Keyong, a rival of Zhu Wen.
Prior to the establishment of the Liang Dynasty,
Zhu Wen had attempted to assassinate Li Keyong,
so he understandably had no interest
in serving the new emperor.
Li Keyong established the minor kingdom of Jin,
which would play a large role in future power struggles,
but rivals such as Li Keyong were not the only ones
who hated the Emperor.
Zhu Wen often summoned his son's wives to the palace
to have sex with them.
He was a notorious sexual predator
who repeatedly assaulted his officer's wives
as well as his own daughters-in-law.
As a result of his horrendous conduct,
as well as familial turmoil over which son would succeed,
the crazed ruler, Zhu Wen was murdered in his palace
by his third son, Zhu Yogui.
Zhu Yogui would last just one year in power
being murdered soon thereafter by his younger brother,
Zhu Youzhen in a coup for the throne.
He would rule from 913 onward
with his reign lasting about a decade.
It was during that time that a boiling point was reached
between the Liang and the kingdoms of Jin.
After many clashes with Emperor Zhu Youzhen's troops
over contested regions,
the Jin kingdom had become quite powerful
and contested the Liang Dynasty in 923.
They established what is known as the Later Tang Dynasty.
They kept the name as Tang
because they desired a restored empire.
Li Cunxu, who was Li Keyong's son
became the first emperor of the Later Tang.
While they showed flashes of brilliance
and potential promise in unifying China,
they failed to control the regions they initially conquered
due to more declarations of independence
within their territory.
The state was thrown into chaos
due to Li Cunxu's poor leadership, as the emperor
and his consort Empress Liu hoarded wealth
and did not reward his soldiers for their efforts in battle.
In the spring of 926, he was finally murdered in a mutiny.
The next dynasty was formed by a veteran general
named Shi Jingtang, his claiming of the throne
marked the third of the five dynasties
and was labeled the Later Jin or Shi Jin.
During this time, Shi Jingtang's army was not powerful
enough to control the incredibly dynamic wartime landscape
of China, and in 936 he asked for the help
of the Khitan in the north.
The Khitan were a nomadic people who dominated
much of Northeast Asia, including modern day Mongolia,
as well as chunks of China and Russia's far east.
A term of the agreement was that the 16 prefectures
of Yayun, a region along the Great Wall,
which contained the strategic positions
of modern day Beijing and Tianjin.
The Khitan Emperor Yelu Delang was also given
superiority over Shi Jingtang.
This was the cause of a conflict.
As the Later Jin eventually decided
that they did not wanna live under the rule
of the Khitan emperor,
they tried to distance themselves from Yelu Delang's reign,
which enraged the ruler who had so recently greatly helped
in the establishment of their dynasty.
A war broke out and Khitan conquered the Later Jin.
They sacked the Shang Prefecture, modern day Anyang
and massacred most of the population.
The Khitan state was renamed the Liao Dynasty
and Yelu Delang declared himself emperor of all of China.
However, this era did not last very long.
The ruler was universally hated by the Chinese
and after constant pushback,
he died while journeying in an attempt to return north.
Shortly after this, rebel Liu Zheyan ceased power
and named himself emperor of the Later Han Dynasty.
Though he died after just one year in power.
He was succeeded by his son Liu Chengyou,
who took the throne at just 17 years of age.
Though a minister by the name of Guo Wei
usurped the inept young leader
after just three years as emperor.
This made the Later Han the shortest dynasty
from this period, lasting just about five years.
In 951, Guo Wei declared himself the new emperor
of the last of the five dynasties, the Later Zhou.
The state served as a vassal state to the Khitan
in the north and lasted until 1960
when a new force emerged to unified China.
The Song Dynasty.
(calm music)
The Song Dynasty was formed
after Zhao Kuangyin, a military inspector,
general of the Later Zhao Dynasty gained control
of the empire after a coup.
He was able to conquer the remaining regions of China,
not yet under his control
and ended the unstable Five Dynasties
and Ten Kingdoms Period with the unification of the empire.
The Song Dynasty's history is divided
into two major periods.
The Northern Song lasting from 960 to 1127 AD
and the Southern Song lasting from 1127 to 1279.
Zhao Kuangyin, now known as Emperor Taizu of Song,
spearheaded a project to map the entire empire
and put an increased focus on scholarly pursuits.
The civil service exams were revamped
and Confucianism made a major return.
This revived push of Confucianism is often referred
to as Neo-Confucianism, in the context of the Song Dynasty.
Though the Song had reunified China,
they were quite weak, militarily
compared to the preceding Tang Dynasty.
After Taizu's death,
his successors had continuously been threatened
by the Khitan Liao Kingdom in the north
that had been established during the Five Dynasties
and Ten Kingdoms Period.
Over time, the bureaucracies quality worsened
and worsened until the Jurchen
a northern ethnic group from the Khitan lands
who had overthrown the Liao finally took advantage.
In 1126, the Jurchen, now taking the Chinese name
of the Jin Dynasty, conquered the capital city of Kaifeng.
It was truly a shame for the Northern Song Dynasty
as the capital city had become a beautiful cosmopolitan
center before the invasion,
the last Northern Song emperor
had been an avid art collector and enthusiast,
and so as a result, the city was full of gorgeous temples,
palaces, and pagodas,
which are tower like architectural structures
typically associated with Buddhism in Southeast Asia.
The city was easy picking however, for the Jin,
the Song were very weak by the mid 12th century
and the invading forces burned the metropolis
upon their arrival.
The North had been taken over by the Jin,
but were unable to seize control
of the Song Dynasty's southern territories.
The Southern Song Dynasty began in 1127
with Lin'an or modern day Hangzhou,
serving as the capital city.
Despite their defeat in the north at the hands of the Jin,
the Southern Song era was very prosperous.
Rice production boomed as farmers were granted the rights
to their land, which grew the economy
as peasants could now sell and trade their surpluses
to acquire other goods.
The population exploded and many great inventions
came about.
The printing press allowed for the mass production
of paper money, making the Song the first government
in the whole world to achieve this feat.
The magnetic compass was also created at this time,
which modernized navigation.
Once again, the Song Dynasty
were also able to utilize gunpowder for weaponry
and began launching bombs from catapults in warfare.
This allowed the Southern Song troops
to defeat the Jin dynasties
and naval forces even when they were wildly outnumbered
by a massive number of ships.
They were unfortunately still unable
to take back the northern regions of China.
As the opposing forces were growing stronger and stronger
and were able to replicate their inventions
simply by kidnapping tradesmen from Southern Song
and forcing them to recreate their weaponry and tools.
Considering their outmatched military,
the Southern Song scholars rejected foreign influences
and desired the preservation of traditional Chinese culture,
fearing that they could be wiped off the map
during the wartime.
This fear is why Confucianism made a comeback
during the dynasty as it was believed
that the core principles were crucial to China's development
and future.
An increased focus was placed on healthy communities
and families, which made for very well-developed cities.
An excellent age of paintings
and other art blossomed at this time
with many works focusing on the beauty of village scenes
and familial peace.
No philosophy or art,
however could save the Song from their fate
at the hands of one of the most famous men in human history,
Genghis Khan.
(dramatic music)
Genghis, originally named Temüjin, had been born in Mongolia
in 1162 AD as a member of the Borjigin tribe
and was a descendant of a former leader.
It is said that Genghis was born grasping a blood clot
in his fist, a sign in Mongol folklore
that he was destined to lead.
Life in Genghis' region was not easy by any means
with constant warring between tribes
and difficult environments earning at the title
of the barbarian wilderness in China.
Genghis spent his early years learning to hunt, travel
and ride horses and was said to be very disinterested
in speaking with others.
At the age of nine, his parents arranged Genghis' marriage
with a girl named Borte from a neighboring tribe
who was 10 years old at the time.
Such was commonplace with the Mongols,
with camps often containing junior wives, concubines
and children.
Women had a little to no agency in these decisions.
Genghis was to be transferred to Borte's camp
after the marriage was set in stone
so the pair could grow up together.
On the journey, however, Rival Tatars poisoned
and killed Genghis' father by offering food
and drink for their travels,
leaving the young boy's family fatherless.
Genghis returned home after this
as his family were abandoned by their tribe
and had been left in a vulnerable outcast position.
Without a patriarchal figure,
tensions rose between Genghis and one of his stepbrothers,
Behter as both boys claimed to be their father's heir.
Behter was the older of the two,
though Genghis was the child of their father's chief wife.
Their rivalry came to a head when Genghis was 13
and Behter tried to take a fish
that Genghis had caught for himself.
Genghis drew his bow and killed Behter
marking the first kill of a man
who would eventually have the deaths
of roughly 40 million people attributed to him.
By the time the hardened Genghis was 15,
he had become incredibly skilled in hunting
and horsemanship.
He became the leader of his remaining brothers,
which prompted the clan
that had initially expelled his family to take him
as prisoner as they feared he would organize
an attack against them.
He escaped during a feast
and hid in the tent of a guard who had failed
to raise the alarm as he made a run for it.
He took shelter in the tent for three days,
threatening to tell the clan
that the guard had helped him escape.
In a very clever move,
he then used this cart to acquire a horse from the guard
and gallop away into the night.
At 16, Genghis returned to the encampment of Borte
to finally marry the girl
after their last arrangement had been foiled
by his father's untimely death.
Borte's father was over the moon at his return
and gifted Genghis a sable cloak to welcome him back.
Genghis then re-gifted the cloak to Toghrul,
the leader of a neighboring tribe to gain his alliance.
Wanting to regain the loyalty of the tribesmen
who had abandoned his family
Genghis first aimed to build a strong following
and that he did.
Other clans began making alliances with Genghis
and before long he had amassed
a relatively strong military force.
Around this time, Genghis and his wife
had their first child, a daughter named Qojin.
Soon after, however, things took a turn for the worse
for Genghis, a group of 300 Merkit horsemen,
the Merkit being one of the five major tribal confederation
of the land raided Genghis encampment
and kidnapped his wife, Borte.
Genghis swore to destroy the Merkit invaders
and in preparation was able to put together an army
of thousands of warriors using his alliances.
They struck back hard and a merciless attack on the Merkits
and comprehensively destroyed the invaders
in a whirlwind of killing and pillaging.
Genghis discovered his wife, who was now pregnant
after being repeatedly abused by a Merkit
and returned her home to camp.
She gave birth to their son Jochi,
who would be followed for the rest of his life
with questions about his true biological father.
Genghis and Borte would have three more sons
and four more daughters in the course of the next decade.
It was during this time that Genghis became
exceedingly close with his childhood friend
and blood brother Jamukha and United their clans.
The two men spent an enormous amount of their time together,
be it during camping, riding or other everyday activity.
Supposedly they even slept under the same blanket.
Eventually, however tensions arose
and the two liters left one another.
It is not entirely clear why this occurred.
Though certain texts indicate that a jealous Borte
played a hand by spreading rumors
and misinformation about Jamukha.
Unfortunately, for Jamukha, many of his soldiers
and leaders joined Genghis.
Before long, Genghis was developing the largest
and most powerful Mongol clan.
He was acclaimed by his followers
as the Khan of the Mongols.
He proved to be a vicious military leader
and expanded his territory
through murderous raids in which him
and his men would pillage and burn settlements
before taking their women.
This served as a form of psychological warfare as well
with many men simply surrendering their camps
without a fight to avoid the destruction
that was becoming all too common in the surrounding areas.
While they were overwhelmingly successful in these campaigns
and were gaining much of the ground
and men of Mongolia, tensions were rising
with Jamukha's very much alive and very much resentful army.
Genghis' former blood brother was quickly becoming
his sworn enemy.
Open conflict broke out in 1187 with the two sides clashing
at the Battle of Dalan Baljut.
Jamukha had assembled 30,000 soldiers
and flanked Genghis' men from the north.
While they were evenly matched in size
it was a decisive bloody victory for Jamukha and his men
and the disgruntled leader was shockingly cruel
in the aftermath.
He boiled 70 captured young men alive
and humiliated the deceased bodies of the rival leaders
that were now siding with Genghis.
This cruelty, however, did not serve Jamukha well
as many followers defected to Genghis,
after witnessing his true vicious nature,
approximately 10,000 of his men joined his rival side
that day, which forced the now outnumbered Jamukha
to move his men back.
The victory however was still undoubtedly his.
Humiliated with such a brutal defeat,
Genghis Khan put an increased focus on the discipline
and training of his military
and forged an unimaginably powerful killing machine
even stronger than before.
The Jin Dynasty struggling
with constant attacks from a common enemy
the Tatars of the steps recruited the help
of the newfound Mongol force, which worked incredibly well.
Genghis' army crushed the enemy Tatars
and returned to their homeland
of Mongolia after their victory.
However, upon their return, Jamukha forces looked
to seize the opportunity and attack the unsuspecting army.
The campaign was a complete failure for Jamukha
with his men being defeated after a series of three battles.
While Jamukha was able to flee this conflict
as well as success of efforts to capture him,
he was eventually taken prisoner
by Genghis after being betrayed by his own men.
Taking pity on his childhood friend,
Genghis offered him a chance to live
and join his clan once again.
Though Jamukha refused and asked to be put to death.
Some accounts state Jamukha was executed honorably
without spilling any blood
and that he was suffocated to death in a carpet
by the Khan's men,
while others claim he was violently dismembered,
what do we know for certain however is that Genghis
would face no more opposition from his blood brother
turned mortal enemy.
Genghis had now taken control over a million people
and was the sole ruler of the step
after promptly subjugating the remaining
smaller forces of Mongolia.
That was not nearly enough however, for the famed ruler,
he set his sights on the whole of China
declaring that he was destined to take the land.
The North was still ruled by the Jin
while the south was still ruled by the Song
though the first step for the Mongols
was to conquer the Western Xia,
which rested in the northwest of China
directly between the Jin and Song.
It was a strategic location to begin the major conquest from
and was an important trade route
that connected China to the west.
In 1207, he launched his campaign
and conquered the Western Xia with a relative ease
over the course of two years.
The small dynasty had tried to enlist the help
of the Jin Dynasty while they were under attack.
Though the Monarch Wanyan Yongji
of Jin denied their request stating that the warring of two
of their rivals was very advantageous for the Jin.
With yet another major victory, Genghis was now able
to fully focus on the Jin Dynasty.
He attempted to send peace envoys over the wall to Jin,
though the rightfully suspicious empire swiftly executed
the assigned men.
In 1211 and enraged Genghis and his cavalry men
were able to breach the Great Wall of China
and decimated the greatly outmatched encampments.
A great number of towns were lost
and many Jin soldiers defected the Genghis' army
after witnessing his usual ruthlessness.
By 1213, the Mongols had reached the capital of Zhongdu,
which is modern day Beijing and utilized catapults
and siege towers to take the city after a year of battle.
They plunder the northern regions of the dynasty's land
and continued taking great chunks of territory.
However, in 1227, Genghis Khan died
after struggling with the fever for a little over a week.
The legacy Genghis Khan left on Earth
is impossible to forget.
Since his wartime tactics typically employed slaughtering
every last person in a civilian population,
it is estimated that he and his armies killed
as many as 40 million people,
more than Hitler and Stalin combined.
At his time of death, he had fornicated with so many women
along his campaigns that he fathered hundreds of children
with some estimates showing potentially one to 2000.
Today, one in 200 men are direct descendants
of the terrifying sex crazed leader.
The Mongols, however, did not slip out of power
once their fierce leader died.
Genghis was succeeded by his third son, Ogedei Khan,
and they kept pushing forward.
In the 1230s the Southern Song joined forces
with the Mongols to defeat the common enemy
of the Jin Dynasty,
not realizing that this move would eventually lead
to their own collapse.
The Jin collapsed in 1234
and so began the Mongols next campaign
against the Southern Song.
The invasion of the Song is split up into two stages.
The first stage lasted from 1235 to 1248 AD
though it was not as severe as one might expect
with the Mongols only gaining relatively small
northern pieces of Song territory,
it ended in something of a stalemate
with a ceasefire briefly halting the invasion.
The second stage began in 1251 with the Khan election
of Mongke, a grandson of Genghis'.
He adopted a much more intense approach to the conquest
of the Southern Song
and gained significant ground not only in China,
but in Iraq and Syria as well.
This stage lasted until 1259
and though they hadn't destroyed the Southern Song Empire
quite yet, the tides turned when Mongke
appointed his brother Kublai Khan.
Recognizing geographic advantages
that the Southern Song held Kublai Khan employed a series
of innovative military strategies to adapt
to southern China's difficult terrains.
A significant achievement of the leader
who would become Khan in 1264
after a power struggle was the development
of a powerful navy force
that allowed the Mongols unprecedented navigation
of China's many waterways.
With the mix of both new
and classic proven siege techniques established
by his lineage, the Mongols were able
to subdue the Southern Song Dynasty in 1279.
(dramatic music)
The Yuan Dynasty was the new dominant empire
making Kublai Khan the first non-native to rule over China.
As the result of a civil war,
the Mongol Empire was by this point,
divided into four Khanates.
The Yuan Dynasty in China,
the Golden Hordes in the northeast,
the Ilkhanate in the southeast in Persia
or modern day Iran and the Chagatai Khanate in Central Asia.
Kublai Khan said his empire's capital is Khanbaliq,
which is now in Beijing, China's current capital city.
Just like his insatiable predecessors,
the new great leader set his sights on further expansion.
Vietnam had slipped away from Chinese control
with the decline of the Tang Dynasty
and the Yuan aimed to take it back.
They also desired islands that belonged
to modern day Indonesia as well as Japan and the East.
They were largely unsuccessful however,
with many battles ending in disastrous defeats,
they failed to take control of any of these regions.
It was clear that the Mongols needed
to establish a stronger governmental base
and so Kublai Khan established a caste system society
with four tiers.
Each ethnic group was ranked according
to the dates in which they were defeated.
The Mongols, of course, sat at the top
of the list while other central Asian peoples
were the second highest.
Most of the empire's population belonged
to the bottom two tiers
with the Northern Chinese ranked third
and the recently defeated Southern Chinese
at the very bottom.
Each class was given different rights
with most of the real power residing at the top
of the pyramid in the hands of the Mongols.
Punishments for crime had varying levels
of severity based on your ethnic class
and the ethnic Chinese were not allowed to own weapons, dogs
or eagles, just in case they may try
to revolt against the empire.
Despite the incredibly high levels of ethnic discrimination,
the empire entered an age of prosperity.
Trade increased as the Silk Road was stabilized
and heavily utilized.
Cities bloomed and Buddhist leaders were employed
as Khan favored the religion.
Kublai Khan also restored the Grand Canal,
a waterway network that spans 2000 kilometers
and links five incredibly important river basins of China,
two being the storied Yangtze and Yellow Rivers.
The themed Venetian merchant,
Marco Polo lived in China for 17 years during the period
and wrote all of the incredible inventions
and ways of life in the Yuan Dynasty's China
upon his return to Europe.
What particularly fascinated him was the use of paper money,
the use of coal as fuel, silk production
and the intriguing sexual practices
of the citizens under Mongol rule.
Like all other dynasties and golden ages
of days past however,
the Mongol Empire did not last forever.
Low tax revenues, corruption, inept leadership
and failed military campaigns all contributed
to the downfall of the Yuan Dynasty
following the death of Kublai Khan in 1294.
However, one of the most crippling factors
was the plague epidemic of the 1330s.
There is plenty of mystery surrounding the exact cause
of the bubonic plague that would eventually ravage Europe
killing a third of the continent in its wake,
but what we do know is that it originated
amongst Mongol soldiers in Crimea.
China was the first country to suffer at the hands
of the black plague after it was contracted by the soldiers
and spread rapidly over the course of a four year span
from 1331 to 1334.
13 million died and it spread to the rest
of the modern world through the Silk Road trading route.
By the time the second surge came to China in the 1350s,
the death toll only continued to grow.
Though the exact figure is not known today.
It was through all this time
that a peasant rebellion called the Red Turbans began
to gain traction in northern China, ignited by a series
of epidemics, natural disasters, famines
coinciding with all this hardship,
the civilian founded resistance opposed the rule
of the invasive Mongols.
The Red Turbans were very skilled in battle
under the leadership of former Buddhist monk, Zhu Yuanzhang,
and were able to forcefully overthrow
the Mongol empire by 1368.
Although the Yuan had not even lasted a century at the helm
of China, their legacy was incredibly influential.
China was far more open to the western world.
Trade had been improved
and the empire was unified once again
with great territorial gains to boot.
Even today, Genghis Khan
and Kublai Khan remain as two of the most prominent figures
of Chinese history despite their non-Chinese ethnicity.
(gentle music)
After the fleeing of the final Yuan Emperor in 1368 AD,
rebel leader Zhu Yuanzhang proclaimed himself emperor
of the Ming Dynasty, which would last until 1644 AD.
Ming would become one of the most powerful empires
in the world.
As Zhu Yuanzhang widely known as the Hongwu Emperor
consolidated his power
and amassed a standing army of over a million men.
A military much larger than any European
contemporaries were boasting.
When the new emperor came into power,
he declared Nanjing the capital city
and a heavy emphasis was placed on the revival
of traditional Han culture.
Neo-Confucianism returned as the prominent school of thought
and the arts blossomed in this newfound time of prosperity
for the ethnic Chinese.
One of the most famous historical novels of all time,
"Romance of the Three Kingdoms,"
which focused on the unstable later years
of the Han Dynasty was written during this time.
The Confucian civil service exams were brought back
to ensure politicians earned their roles
with merit and knowledge, and Mongol related names
and garments were banned across the empire.
Public service projects flourished at this time as well,
a former peasant who himself suffered
through intense famines and natural disasters,
the Hongwu Emperor established vast irrigation systems
in dikes with the aim of helping to improve the lives
and crop yields of farmers.
As a result, the economy boomed, trade routes were restored
and expanded further, and the population grew massively.
Under Hongwu's command that 10% of military personnel
should be gunners,
the Ming Dynasty heavily embraced the use of gunpowder
and developed firearm prototypes and cannon batteries.
This improvement allowed them
to repel various invading forces
such as the Mongol tribes in the north
and maintain their status
as one of the world's most powerful forces.
It truly was a time of great innovation and transformation
under the emperor's rule.
Though there was a dark side to the Hongwu Emperor,
he was incredibly paranoid about losing his grip on power
and enacted a strict legal code that introduced all kinds
of brutal executions to Chinese law.
These included lingchi or the death by a thousand cuts
where pieces of the body are slowly
and gradually removed by a small knife as well as fleeing
where the skin is continuously removed in a torturous
fashion, massacres were carried out on those
who oppose the emperor to ensure no rebellions
or coups could form, fearing not just insurrections
from within, but the Mongols in the north as well.
Hongwu desired stronger borders to protect the empire.
This important sentiment would be passed on
for generations.
Under the Ming, particularly during the reign
of the Hongzhi Emperor who ruled from 1487 to 1505 AD,
plenty of resources went towards building
and maintaining the Great Wall.
The construction under the Ming forms the most visible
contemporary sections of the Great Wall today.
The desire for strengthened borders was not the only trade
passed on by the Empire's first ruler however,
throughout the generations of Ming rulers
were similarly power hungry and cruel.
The last emperor of the dynasty,
Chongzhen assumed the throne at just 16
after his illiterate and possibly disabled brother,
the Tianqi Emperor died in 1627.
By the time he had taken office,
the army was in a miserable state of disarray.
The economy was in the gutter because of corruption, greed,
and the self-preservation of emperors powers.
Instead of a focus on building a greater nation.
Enemies at every turn were destroying the empire
and new rebellions aim to overthrow the Ming
in a series of resistances aptly named
the Late Ming Peasant Rebellions.
The Ming Dynasty had lost the mandate of heaven.
This era culminated in 1644 AD when the warlord Li Zicheng
and his men marched on Beijing, prompting the Ming Emperor
to hang himself.
Zicheng immediately named himself emperor,
claiming that he had the mandate of heaven.
(gentle music)
He was not the only one looking
to take the crumbling Ming's power however,
the Manchus of Northeast Asia
who had been steadily growing their power
throughout the Ming Dynasty and attacking the empire
at every turn immediately claimed the throne
and began the Qing Dynasty.
This began China's second non-native dynasty proceeded only
by the Mongol empire.
Under the reign of the Shunzhi Emperor,
all Chinese men were forced to adopt
the Manchu Queue hairstyle
where hair on the top of the scalp is grown long
and braided while the rest of the head is shaved bald.
Cutting your hair differently was seen as a sign
of rebellion and the haircut would go on
to become a cultural symbol of the Qing Dynasty.
It also ensured at this time that over half
of all high ranking government officials must be Manchu
to preserve their people's power in the empire.
After the Shunzhi Emperor's death of smallpox in 1661,
the 61 year reign of the Kangxi Emperor began,
which would be the longest of any leader in Chinese history.
Despite his leanings towards a Neo-Confucianism,
the emperor embraced multiculturalism
and the presence of various religious identities in China.
He went so far as to allow Jesuit missionaries
to spread their beliefs across the nation,
propagating the spread of Roman Catholicism in China.
The main feats of his rule,
however, were his many grand public work projects.
The Grand Canal was repaired to make the transportation
of food far easier
and massive dredging projects protected farmers
from the flooding of the Yangtze River.
Prior to his death in 1722 Kangxi constantly worked day
and night to stay updated on the happenings of the empire
and plan further projects.
Because of this, as well as as many major successes,
he's generally recognized as one of the most competent
and committed rulers in Chinese history.
In the 18th century, commerce and the arts
continued to thrive
and prosper under Kangxi's successive rulers.
Yongzheng, who ruled from 1722 to 1735
and Qianlong, who ruled from 1735 to 1796.
Their success, however, would not be continued
as we moved into the 1800s.
(dramatic music)
The 19th century was truly an age of adventure
for the merchants and travelers
of the west financially burdened
by their colonial failures in the Americas,
Great Britain began searching for other avenues
of resource extraction and financial gain.
This led to an increased interest in China
who were now well known for their products
such as silk, tea and porcelain.
The Chinese ruling class,
however, was not so keen on the trade relationship
desired by the British.
Very much aware of the destabilization
that could occur by opening up their empire
to great imperial powers for the sake of trade,
the Qing Dynasty restricted trade with foreigners
and regulated internal transactions as they saw fit.
They feared that an increased reliance on foreign trade
would weaken the central authority as the people
of China could become
as economically reliant on Western rulers
as they were on their own.
They also did not want the Chinese culture to be eroded
for the sake of Western prophets.
Because of this, the Qing had previously established
the Canton system, a set of rules
and regulations to limit the economic influence
of foreign merchants.
Foreigners were only allowed to trade through the ports
of Canton, and the regulations imposed on their trading
were as follows.
One, the Qing Dynasty restricted foreign trade
during the winter months,
two, foreigners visiting Canton were required
to stay in designated areas, dubbed the foreign factories,
and live under the supervision of a guild
of Chinese merchants known as the Cohong.
Three, Chinese citizens were barred from borrowing capital
or seeking employment from foreign traders.
Four Chinese citizens were not allowed to seek out trading
or market information from foreigners.
Five, foreign vessels arriving in Canton were required
to anchor at Whampoa Roads,
a designated anchorage area downstream from Canton
and were subject to inspection from Chinese authorities.
European merchants could not stand these restrictions
as they inhibited their ability to trade freely
and make profits after they had traveled
all the way to China.
The rules were seen as far too strict,
and the result of this was a major spike in smuggling goods
and piracy among foreigners.
Despite this, the European desire
for Chinese goods continue to increase.
Tea alone accounted for 10%
of the British government's revenue,
and they were not going to back down
from the potential goldmine of Chinese trade so easily.
They needed leverage and they found it
in the highly addictive narcotic that is opium.
The East India Company,
a British trading company had previously conquered regions
of India and grew poppies for opium on the land.
The Chinese desired opium for a number of medical, social,
and recreational reasons making for a perfect trade-off
between the East India Company
and the Chinese, tea for drugs.
The issue is that the Qing Dynasty recognized the health
and social hazards of widespread opium use.
Opium was illegal in China, as was the importation of it.
A major uncontrolled importation
by foreign powers was especially illegal.
The traders were not concerned with this however,
they set up shop along the borders
and smuggled in copious amounts of opium for trade.
The number of opium addicts in the country boomed.
The economy was drained of its silver
and the once impressive Chinese trade surplus
was utterly destroyed.
The Daoguang Emperor was met with numerous proposals
to legalize and tax the drug, all of which he rejected.
It was clear he needed to act swiftly
to prevent any further decay of the empire.
In 1839, he sent Chinese Viceroy
and political philosopher Lin Zexu with the task
of completely halting the trade of opium.
Initially, Zexu wrote a letter to Queen Victoria stating
that she had a moral responsibility to pull Britain out
of the opium trade.
Though the letter was never even read,
Zexu was forced to resort to harsher punishments.
By late January, he had organized a coastal defense
in the province and begun arresting thousands
of opium traders and users.
By March, approximately 2.4 million pounds
of opium were seized
and set on fire as a public display
of the government's determination
to completely derail the trade and usage of opium in China.
British merchants were bankrupted by the ordeal
and tensions between the British
and Chinese continued to escalate.
Charles Elliot, a British diplomat in China
was doing a poor job of mediation and things only got worse
after two British sailors murdered a Chinese villager
and faced no repercussions from Elliot
or the British government.
They refused to hand the men over to the Chinese authorities
for execution, which enraged Zexu.
The Viceroy cut off the food supplies
to the British merchants, prompting the traitors
to retreat to Hong Kong.
On trips to retrieve supplies from the Chinese ports
for the merchants, a naval battle between British
and Chinese ships erupted marking the start
of the first opium war.
The fighting continued with the Chinese suffering
continuous major losses at the hands of the Britt's,
vastly superior naval forces.
In 1840, Lin Zexu was dismissed by the emperor
because of his continued failures
in stopping the conflict's escalation
and was replaced by the new acting viceroy, Qishan.
Qishan was tasked with negotiating a peace treaty
with the British and reached a tentative agreement
with Elliot in 1841.
It was titled the Convention of Chuenpi,
and stated that the Qing Empire would pay the British
6 million pounds
and handover Hong Kong in order for the war to end.
Both Elliot and Qishan were happy,
but there was a major issue.
Qishan had not asked for approval
from the Qing Imperial Court and agreed to the terms
without any input from his superiors.
The emperor was furious
and had Qishan arrested while Elliot's superiors fired him
from his role as they saw the deal to be insufficient.
Many British soldiers and diplomats wanted the war
to continue and did not wanna let up so easily.
After the British continued to push further
and further into China, it became increasingly clear
to the Chinese that they could resist no longer.
Thousands of Chinese soldiers had been killed
in battle over the course of the conflict,
which was astoundingly high
compared to the British casualty count,
which was less than 100.
In 1842, the Treaty of Nanjing was signed,
which included the following significant rulings.
One, the Chinese government would pay
20 million pounds to Britain.
Two, the island of Hong Kong would be seated
to the British.
Three, the Cohong would be dissolved.
Four, five ports would be open for trade.
Five, British citizens were subject
to British law in China, not Chinese.
This marked the first of several treaties
that would be dubbed the unequal treaties by the Chinese.
Agreements that humiliated and exploited the empire.
(dramatic music)
In the aftermath, there was a major internal threat
to the Qing Dynasty brewing.
The first opium war had damaged the economy and banditry
and rebellion were on the rise.
One rebellion, the Taiping Rebellion would mark one
of the bloodiest conflicts in the history of the world
with somewhere between 20 to 30 million dying
in the Civil War.
But where exactly did the Taiping Rebellion come from?
Years ago in 1814,
a boy named Hong Xiuquan was born
in the Huadu district of Guangzhou.
Hong was said to be incredibly intelligent
and dreamed of academia from a young age.
However, the Imperial examinations required
to earn spots in academies and high paying government jobs
were incredibly difficult and competitive.
Millions of applicants would take the tests
and while Hong did exceedingly well on preliminary tests,
he was unable to seize a position
after his first attempt on the exams.
He returned to his small village to become a school teacher
and save up some money.
Though he remained transfixed on his dreams of academia
and governmental work,
he continued to sink his money into returns
to the city of Guangzhou
for the purpose of writing the exams.
Though after his third failure,
Hong was driven into a mental breakdown.
His family believed he would die
as Hong was completely delirious.
At this time, Hong dreamed of heaven
and discovered a heavenly family.
Hong's Heavenly Father dawned a long golden beard
and black dragon robe,
which were worn by the emperors of China.
He complained that the men under his reign were worshiping
demons instead of himself and gave Hong a sword
to fight against the demons destroying the heavenly realm.
Hong and his heavenly brother led a spiritual army
that vanquished the demons and saved heaven.
Hong also reported seeing Confucius being punished
by the heavenly Father
for leading the Chinese people astray.
The dream stuck with Hong,
who reportedly became far more careful, friendly, and open.
After teaching for several more years,
Hong decided he would take the Imperial examinations
and met the same fate he had the first three times.
After this final failure,
a cousin of Hong suggested that he re-examine
a Christian pamphlet that he had been given by a missionary
after filling the exams years ago
for the second time when he was 22.
After reading the material, Hong decided
that Christianity was directly connected
with the fever dreams he had suffered
in his state of delirium during his mental breakdown.
The heavenly Father must have been God
and the brother he fought alongside
with these spiritual army must have been Jesus Christ.
Hong believed that he was the literal son of God
and a brother of Jesus.
He destroyed all the Buddhist
and Confucianist imagery in his home
and began vehemently preaching Christianity.
He was eventually banned from teaching in his own village
after toppling various religious and philosophical monuments
and idols that he did not believe
aligned with his Christian faith.
In 1844, Hong and a handful of relatives, schoolmates
and followers left the country
to preach the religious doctrine across China.
After the group steadily grew, Hong became the leader
of a religious movement called the God Worshiping Society,
which attracted thousands of converts.
Many peasant followers adored the anti-government rhetoric
preached by the society as Hong believed
that the demon infested Qing Dynasty
needed to be destroyed.
Hong had created his own adaptation
of the Bible called the authorized Taiping version
of the Bible, and explained
that the religion had existed long ago,
but was wiped out by the evil Confucius
and the Imperial system.
By 1850, Hong had tens of thousands of followers
with modern size estimates ranging all the way
to 30,000 members.
The Qing Dynasty feared the steadily growing cult
and decided to take action against it.
In the province of Guangxi,
many peasants who had suffered through famine
and economic struggles were drawn to Hong's movement,
but were ordered not to join by imperial troops.
Any new converts were to be executed.
By January, 1851,
the God Worshiping Society quickly militarized
and battled against 7,000 Qing soldiers.
It is said that the command of the cult
was shockingly organized compared to prior rebellions,
and after the bloodshed of over a thousand men,
Hong soldiers emerged victorious.
Hong then declared the founding of the heavenly kingdom
of transcendent peace,
his movement that would hopefully topple the Qing Dynasty.
The movement marched from city to city to recruit members,
and it grew at an unprecedented rate.
Both men and women in many major settlements were prepared
to die for the cause.
In March of the Year 1853, one of Hong's forces,
which consisted of over 500,000 soldiers
launched a siege on the city of Nanjing,
which was defended by somewhere between 40,000 to 80,000
Qing soldiers.
After 13 days of a ruthless battle,
including major bombings, spy missions,
and major violent charges, Hong soldiers
or the Taiping Rebellion took the city
and declared it as their capital city.
The movement's ruling was divided between kings
who all claimed they could communicate with God himself.
The most notable of these was Yang Xiuqing,
who served as King of the East.
He served as Hong's right hand man
and implemented reforms such as the outlawing of opium
and the social equalization of both men and women.
The two genders were separated.
That is outside of Hong's Harem.
European travelers observing the new Christian kingdom
in South China, much of which was now under Taiping control,
were astounded by how rigid the rules of the land were.
Sex, drinking, gambling, tobacco, prostitution,
and dancing were all outlawed
and disobeying these rules resulted in the death penalty.
Despite the distrust between the Qing Dynasty
and Western powers as a result of the opium wars,
the Taiping rebellion was not supported by Europe.
Hong had reached out to the Western powers
for assistance since they now shared a religion.
The United States viewed Hong
and the rebellion quite favorably
and prepared to recognize their independence from the Qing.
Though nothing solidified, Britain, France
and the Americans eventually supported the Qing
for a handful of reasons
and came to see the Taiping Rebellion
as a diametrically oppositional force
rather than brothers in Christ.
The British wanted their payments that were outlawed
and the treaty signed during the opium wars,
which the Taiping peasant rebellion obviously
would not be paying.
Furthermore, Hong's claims of being directly related to God
and Jesus were seen as disrespectful by many Europeans,
and they distrusted the leader's agenda
given how much violence and death occurred
with each move of the Taiping.
A particularly disturbing example of this violence
occurred in 1856 in an event called the Tianjing incident.
Yang Xiuqing overstepped his political bounds
when he began claiming that he was the true vessel
for God's word.
He had been gaining traction as a leader in his own right
and wanted to seize power over the kingdom
and had amassed thousands of followers himself.
He continuously pretended to be possessed
by the heavenly Father
and accused Hong of being an imposter.
Considering such rhetoric to be treasonous,
Hong did not take kindly to Yang's actions
and dispatch the King of the West, as well as a handful
of generals to exterminate the King of the East,
as well as all of his followers and relatives.
They stormed Yang's palace and killed him,
then slaughtered all of his family members
before moving on to his followers.
Many were tricked into entering the palace
and were systematically executed.
Over the course of three months,
Hong's men would kill 27,000 civilians
in the mass executions.
The cult was becoming increasingly more dangerous
under Hong's tyrannical rule
and reports of indiscriminate slaughterings of civilians
with each new land they took became more and more common.
However, the Qing Dynasty's attention needed to be divided
between the Taiping rebellion
and the western European powers.
A second opium war was on the way.
(calm music)
Despite the overwhelming victory of the first opium war,
Western powers such as the British government, France
and the United States were still not satisfied
with their earnings in China.
They wanted opium to be wholly legalized in China
and were not content with the results of the Treaty
of Nanjing and other treaties signed in later years.
The British were looking for an excuse
to extend their trading rights and reinvade China,
and in October of 1856, the opportunity came.
The Chinese crew of a British registered ship
called the Arrow were arrested
by the Chinese officials in Canton on suspicion
of being pirates.
The captain of the ship, a Brit by the name
of Thomas Kennedy, was aboard in nearby ship at the time
and reported that he saw the British flag being lowered
by the Chinese Marines during the ordeal.
Furious British diplomats demanded
that an apology be issued immediately
and that the 12 arrested crew members be released.
Much to their surprise, the new Viceroy
Ye Mingchen only released nine of the 12,
refusing to let the other three go.
Within the month, a bombardment of Canton
by the British began with a powerful army firing a shot
at the poorly protected city.
In their efforts to fight back,
the Chinese attacked American ships,
which drew yet another powerful nation in
on the fight against the Qing.
Ye Mingchen offered a bounty for every British had taken,
but it was of little use.
After blasting holes in the flimsy city walls,
skirmishes broke out between the Western and Chinese troops.
As the attackers entered Canton,
the American flag was planted on the residence
of Ye Mingchen by the US console
as a symbol of their dominance.
After negotiations to cease fighting failed,
the British struck even harder
with over 20 Chinese ships being destroyed in November.
Though the United States
and Russia were both disinterested in formal alliances
with the British against the Chinese,
the French joined their fight against China in late 1857.
Their official excuse for joining
or casus belli, was the Chinese execution
of a French missionary, Auguste Chapdelaine,
who was accused of plotting insurrection
in a region foreigners were not supposed to be in.
He refused to pay a bribe to the arresting officials,
and as a result was sentenced to death,
the missionary had been beaten 100 times on the cheek,
causing his teeth to be knocked out.
His jaw was completely lacerated by this
and his face was destroyed.
He was then placed in a tiny iron cage,
which hung at the gate of the jail.
His death was by suffocation.
As the Chinese removed the wooden plank
he stood on one by one, which strained the muscles
of his neck until he died.
Chinese children hurled stones
at Chapdelaine's decapitated head until it toppled
to the ground and was eaten by stray dogs.
On January 1st, 1858, the combined British
and French forces cruised the victory
after a joint attack on Canton
and captured Ye Mingchen as their prisoner.
The Western power suffered only 15 casualties.
While somewhere between 200 to 650
of the hemmed-in militarily inferior Chinese
were killed in action.
Viceroy Ye Mingchen was exiled to India
where he starved himself to death.
Utterly humiliated, the Chinese were forced to negotiate
once again.
An alliance was formed at this time
between Great Britain, France, the United States and Russia.
So each respective global power benefited greatly
from their new deal, the Treaty of Tianjin.
The new treaty stated that one,
all four countries had the right
to establish embassies in Beijing,
which was close to foreigners at the time.
Two, more Chinese ports would be opened for foreign trade.
Three, free travel would be established
along the Yangtze River for all foreign ships,
four, free travel in mainland China would be established
as a right for foreigners.
Five, China would pay millions of taels of silver
to both Britain and France.
Shortly after this disastrous treaty
for the Chinese was agreed to,
ministers urge the Xianfeng Emperor
to resist against the western powers once again.
The emperor decided he was going
to deny the four country's ability
to set up foreign litigations in Beijing,
and the alliance caught wind of this.
Once again, the war was on.
Three battles were fought at the Taku Forts.
The battles were fought there
as the forts were in a strategic position
that allowed access to Beijing.
After split losses
and hundreds of deaths scattered amongst both sides,
the Western forces eventually emerged victorious once again.
They pushed into Beijing with the British troops
burning down the Xianfeng Emperor's summer palace
when they arrived at the city.
The old palace is said to have burnt
for three days and three nights.
The Qing army was rendered useless by this point,
so the emperor fled the capital,
leaving his brother Prince Gong behind a negotiate peace
with Britain and France.
A new treaty was reached in 1860,
which amongst other concessions,
such as major payments to the Western powers
and freedom of religion for Christians contained
the final blow for the Chinese empire.
The legalization of opium.
The massive defeats in the two successive opium wars marked
the beginning of the end for the Qing Dynasty.
The era is known today as the century of humiliation.
The days of being cut off from the western world
were long gone,
and a stretch of great instability was about to begin.
(dramatic music)
All this time, Hong and the Taiping Rebellion
had not yet subsided.
More cities had been taken over the course
of the second opium war,
while the Qing were thinly stretched,
fighting against vastly superior powers.
It was around this time that the Qing rulers
sided with regional warlords
or the new armies that oppose the expanding Taiping Kingdom.
Western countries also began to oppose the Taiping
as the cult had begun attacking regions
with important treating ports for foreigners.
The Brits and Americans supplied the struggling Qing
with weaponry and training, and thus a fresh
and prepared Qing army was able
to launch a major offensive against the Taiping.
The Qing adopted the vicious
and savage military techniques
of the Taiping Rebellion burning entire towns to the ground
and executing civilians and mass.
Famine and plagues began
as each side destroyed an unfathomable amount
of crops and settlements.
Hundreds of cities were entirely destroyed.
Their citizens murdered.
Some Taiping citizens and besieged cities
resorted to cannibalism and selling human flesh
because the famines were so bad.
The Taiping were pushed further and further back
losing much of their land in Southern China
until only the capital of Nanjing remained.
The Qing had the Taiping kingdom completely surrounded,
and many began to starve within the city limits
as the Qing forces ruin the supply lines.
It was simply a matter of time
before they were completely defeated.
So Hong's officials urged him to evacuate the city
to regroup and establish a new plan
to fight against the renewed Qing forces.
However, Hong truly believed the Taiping
had got on their side and that they could not be defeated
so long as they were his chosen people.
After the city continued to deteriorate
multiple push pull battles
with his increasingly desperate advisors
finally convinced Hong to leave the palace.
Hong addressed his followers
and stated that they would survive off of manna
that God would send from heaven.
Manna was an edible substance in the Bible
that God provided for the Israelites
during their travels in the desert,
and Hong believed the divinity would offer the same
substance and abundance for him and his followers.
They began ingesting weeds, believing them to be manna,
resulting in Hong's death of food poisoning in June of 1864.
The Qing army finally marched into the city of Nanjing
and killed all the remaining Taiping leaders.
Though they were not finished there,
many of Hong's followers were executed in house
by house massacres at the hands of the Qing,
while thousands of others resorted
to burning themselves in mass suicides.
On July 30th of the same year,
the Qing forces located Hong Xiuquan's body
and removed it from its burial place,
wanting to punish the crazed leader for eternity
and ensure that his body would never have
a final resting place.
They cut off his head and cremated the remains.
Hong's ashes were then blasted out of a cannon
so that they would be dispersed without any organization.
After tens of millions of death,
most of which were due to plague and famine,
the war had been definitively won by the Qing Dynasty
and they believed once again
that they could hold onto their power in China.
This belief, however, was misguiding.
(gentle music)
Corruption ran rampant in the unstable years
following the Opium wars,
and the Qing Dynasty lacked strong central leadership.
To the east of China, grew an increasingly modernized Japan
who was grappling with the effects of Western intrusions
far better than the Qing.
Under Emperor Meiji, Japan was expanding their territory
with a rapidly strengthening military
and set their sights on Korea
even though the nation had been under China's grasp
for centuries.
In 1875, Korea was forced to sign a treaty
that opened up their ports to foreigners
with a heavy focus on Japanese trade.
This effectively depleted the Chinese
of their power in the region.
As the Koreans were forced to declare
their foreign relations as independent from the Qing.
Both the Qing and the Japanese stationed troops in Korea,
though there was no direct conflict,
both sides forces were momentarily pulled
after a series of treaties.
The peace, however, did not last for very long.
Tensions continued to rise over the next two decades
with troops moving about until the two empires
reached a boiling point in 1894.
A series of coups and assassinations in Korea
broke the convention that initially held the peace.
And on August 1st war was officially declared
between the Qing Empire and the Empire of Japan.
Though the Chinese had four times as many troops
as the Japanese, they were not as well prepared.
Once again, the Japanese empire had done a much better job
of modernizing and their troops were far more capable.
The Chinese had, by this point,
purchased plenty of modern military equipment.
Though they were poorly trained and disorganized,
the Japanese pushed the Chinese back time and time again
in a series of devastating losses for the Qing troops.
The navy nor the foot soldiers were any match
for the Japanese.
By the early spring of 1895,
the Japanese had successfully invaded both Manchuria
as well as the province of Shandong.
The Chinese were defeated and the Treaty of Shimonoseki
was signed on April 17th.
It stated that China must cede Taiwan,
recognized the independence of Korea
and pay a massive sum of taels to Japan.
Just like that the Qing Dynasty had suffered
yet another major defeat that tacked onto the century
of humiliation.
(gentle music)
In the aftermath of the Opium Wars,
the Taiping Rebellion, the first Sino-Japanese war,
and lastly, the Boxer Rebellion of 1900
of violent anti foreigner movement run by a secret society,
the Qing Dynasty was in a complete state of disarray.
Other rebellions broke out across the empire
as many people had lost faith in the Qing Dynasty's ability
to maintain China's power in a rapidly
industrializing modern world.
In 1910, there were 285 rebellions
in the calendar year alone.
However, most were spearheaded by peasants
who had little direction
in terms of what exactly the new China should look like.
One movement stood out from the rest of the pack,
the Revolutionary Alliance.
Dr. Sun Yat-sen, a former physician turned revolutionary,
had founded the group and amassed 10,000 followers
by the year 1911, many of which were well-educated
and had studied abroad.
The aim to radicalize Qing soldiers
to fight against the dynasty
and successfully continued to grow in the shadows.
(rifles booming)
The Revolutionary alliance spread their rhetoric
through fake book clubs and other such harmless things
and would simply dissolve the groups
if the authorities investigated.
(rifles booming)
Many soldiers across China were radicalized
and ready to turn against the Qing.
On October 11th, 1911, the first attack was launched,
turned members of the new army stationed in Wuchang,
attacked a Viceroy's place of residence
and took command of the city after he fled.
500 Manchu soldiers were killed in the process
and another 300 were captured.
The ammunition depots and mint were now under control
of the mutiny, and so a military government was formed.
However, the rebels did not yet have central leadership.
As Dr. Sun Yat-sen was not even in China at the time.
He was making the rounds in the West, lobbying for American,
British and French support and funds
and requesting that they stop assisting
the Qing Dynasty financially.
After securing the leadership
of a high ranking officer named Li Yuanhong,
the mutant years conquest continued.
Two more cities were taken
and the threat that they would take the whole Hubei province
was becoming very real.
The Qing needed to respond fast
and urged a retired Viceroy by the name of Yuan Shikai
to take control of the situation and stop the rebellion.
While he pondered whether or not he should accept,
the rebellion grew and grew.
Qing political figures and their families were massacred.
Their army supply lines were blocked
and the rebellion gained more and more land.
After Li Yuanhong finally accepted,
he was appointed as Prime Minister
on the 1st of November, 1911,
and began negotiations with the revolutionaries.
Shortly after, Sun Yat-sen,
the founder of the Revolutionary Alliance,
returned from his diplomatic travels
and was elected the president
of the provisional Republican government.
The center of Yat-sen's newly declared Republic of China,
was based in the city of Nanjing,
which they had recently captured.
The Qing Dynasty were all but defeated.
Their plan was a classic example of too little, too late,
and as a result, the royal family
and emperor abdicated the throne in early 1912.
This major change was not like the power struggles
between rivaling families and warlords of days gone by
with the Qing dynasties usurping by the Republic of China,
the dynastic cycle of China ended.
Thousands of years of dynasties had come to a close
as China moved in a new direction in the modern age.
(dramatic music)
Dr. Sun Yat-sen handed the presidency of the Republic
over to Yuan Shikai as part of their prior negotiations
that included that Yuan would seize the title
of the newly established reign,
should he convince the emperor of Qing to abdicate.
Sun Yat-sen had no problem with this deal
so long as it meant that the Qing Dynasty would end.
Unfortunately, just a few short years later, in late 1915,
the politically ambitious Yuan Shikai
decided that he wanted more than just the presidency,
he wanted to be an emperor.
He declared himself as the emperor of China,
a decision that displeased many.
The people did not want more of the same,
and yet another emperor would be exactly that.
He was almost immediately abdicated
being removed from power in March of 1916.
Though before that could happen,
he died just three months later in June
and left behind an unstable republic
without a consolidated central government,
all because of his selfish desire to restore the monarchy
and rule as an emperor.
What ensued was a period known as the warlord era,
which lasted from 1916, all the way until 1928.
Because so many political forces
and regional warlords refused to follow Yuan Shikai,
China was severely fragmented.
One look at a map of all the divided militaries demonstrates
the governmental disaster that had been brought on
by the Republic's first president.
The future held great uncertainty,
though some men still held on to hope.
One of those men was the arch revolutionary Sun Yat-sen.
He established a new revolutionary government
in the south of China with the aim of reestablishing
a consolidated power under the Republic of China.
His new movement was now called the Kuomintang
or KMT for short
and aimed to consolidate power under the Republic of China.
Another major future political power was brewing in China
during this period as well.
The May Fourth Movement, a patriotic, intellectual,
and political revolutionary movement that lasted from 1917
to 1921 had led to an increase in Marxist ideologies
and the creation of the Chinese Communist Party,
or simply the CCP.
Though these two parties formed an alliance in 1922
with both sides aiming to end the regionalism
plaguing the nation,
they would go on to fight against each other
just a small handful of years
in the bloody Chinese civil war.
After Sun Yat-sen's untimely death of cancer in 1925,
a power vacuum was created within this new movement
and every man for himself contest ensued
to seize control occurred
and resulted in general and rising political power
to Chiang Kai-shek taking the reigns.
The general aimed to unify the fragmented fractions
of the warlord era and consolidate power
and wanted to tame the rising Communist party as well,
believing them to be a threat to the government's future
because of their associations with peasant rebellions.
After the KMT was successful in beating back the warlords
and reclaiming major cities across China,
the CCP no longer served an immediate purpose to them.
Instead, they stood in the way of Chiang Kai-shek's KMT
and consolidated unified China.
After uncovering a plot to overthrow him,
Kai-shek began violently suppressing communist organizers.
A famous example of this was the Shanghai Massacre
in which thousands of communists, leftists
and Shanghai Labor Union militia members
were purged in the name of securing China's future.
When the struggling CCP was trying to plot a course
of action in the aftermath of the massacre,
leaders Li Lisan and Mao Zedong held differing opinions
on the future of communism in China.
Li advocated for staying put in metropolitan areas
and refused the idea of retreat.
While Mao felt that a focus on the rural peasantry
was the true soul of communism and that they should regroup
to establish themselves as a formidable force
against the KMT.
Mao's plan prevailed, and in the coming years,
he was able to piece together his revolution
in the remote regions of China
where the far more powerful KMT did not have full control.
This conflict, however, was not simply a Chinese problem.
The USSR supported Li and Mao in this endeavor
as they too were attempting to build a global empire
of communist nations.
It was at this time in the 1930s as well
that the imperialist driven Japanese began moving
into mainland China to expand their influence.
The invasion of Manchuria in the northeast of China
marked a new age of Japanese imperialism in China
and would steadily swell until exploding
into a full fledged official war a few years later.
That war had not yet begun however,
and the result of the invasion of Manchuria
was that the nationalist KMT
needed to divide their attention between the Civil War
with the CCP as well as the now threatening Japan
and temporarily cease their military campaign
against the communists.
They launched their fourth encirclement campaign
to annihilate the remaining CCP members in 1932.
Though the Red Army was able to tactically retreat
and avoid extermination after the first few battles,
Japan continued to push inward in the northeast,
which stretched the KMT's manpower and resources thin,
allowing the Guerrilla communists
to gain ground against their vulnerable opponents.
Mao was not ashamed of his numerous tactical retreats,
but incredibly proud of his Red Army
and their guerrilla tactics,
stating that the guerrilla versus standing army dynamic
was a necessary one between the oppressed and the oppressor.
He recognized that they were an inferior force
in terms of sheer strength and would need to adopt
a hit and run mentality to fight against the KMT.
He put a heavy emphasis on maintaining the good favor
of the civilian population as well as such as necessary
to grow in a revolution against powerful government forces
such as the nationalists.
In 1934, after signing a treaty with the Japanese
that allowed for full focus on the communists,
though relations with Germany were not ideal for China,
given the European country's racial arrogance,
they accepted the help of a Nazi general
named Hans von Seeckt.
Hans enacted massive encirclement
and a scorched earth policy against the communists,
a strategy that includes destroying everything
that allows the enemy to wage war
such as crops and other resources.
He believed that this would draw the weakened CCP
out into the open where they could be swiftly defeated
without the ability to ambush or surprise the KMT.
It worked, with the communist suffering major defeats
at the hands of the strengthened nationalists
who would put together their largest army yet
for this operation.
This spurred a major tactical retreat
known as the Long March,
which would cover 10,000 kilometers over the course
of 13 months with the CCP's goal being to reestablish
their base in northwestern China instead of the southeast.
90,000 soldiers and 20,000 civilians began the trek
in September of 1934 and were subjected to 15 major battles,
constant skirmishes, starvation, disease,
and harsh weather along the way.
It was truly a brutal period with 90% of Mao's forces
not living to see the end of the journey.
This nonstop suffering did not phase the communist leader.
However, in October, 1935, Mao and the remaining 10%
of his company arrived in the northeast province of Shaanxi
and united with local communist forces working out of there.
More of the peasantry and neighboring areas were recruited
as the CCP treated them exceedingly well
and plans began to continue the war against the KMT.
However, in 1937 hostilities ceased
between the two parties.
Japan was increasingly dangerous to the future
of China's existence,
forcing the KMT and the CCP to form a second united front
against them.
Chiang Kai-shek did not want to accept this piece,
though his hand was forced
after he was seized by his own generals
who believed the Japanese threat
to be larger than the Communist one.
(suspenseful music)
The second Sino-Japanese war began in July, 1937
and would last until the end of World War II
in September, 1945.
It would be the sign of some of the most disturbing battles
and massacres, not only in Chinese history,
but in that of the entire world.
The Japanese already had one foot ahead of the Chinese
because of the favorable terms that had been outlined
in their previous ceasefire agreement.
They controlled regions of China
that the KMT were not allowed to militarize in
and already had troops stationed within her borders.
After taking Beijing and Shanghai by November of 1937,
the Japanese set their sights
on the KMT's capital of Nanjing.
This resulted in the slaughter of over 200,000 Chinese
and a massacre widely known as the Rape of Nanjing.
In December of the same year,
Japanese troops had begun making their way
to the capital city.
By this time, Chiang Kai-shek had already pulled
all official army members out of Nanjing
as he did not wanna suffer a major loss of troops.
This left the city utterly hopeless
in the face of the imperial Japanese military
defended only by mostly untrained auxiliary troops
that served as support personnel to the KMT army.
During the Japanese soldiers march to the city,
the Nanjing safety zone had been prepared
in the heart of the city.
Many westerners, including missionaries and businessmen,
were residing in the city at the time
and set up a series of demilitarized refugee camps
for the citizens that had not fled the city.
This move would end up saving the lives of 250,000 people.
On December 13th, the Japanese arrived
and faced little military resistance.
They began executing Chinese prisoners of war
and started forming mass graves.
Homes were ransacked,
buildings were burnt and destroyed,
and the soldiers began separating families
of the terrified citizens.
Some of the Japanese men engaged in kill contests,
where they would race to see who could be the first
to execute 100 victims using only a sword.
Prisoners were used as target practice.
Young children were promptly executed while their mothers
viciously raped and then killed by Japanese troops.
Unarmed boys were beheaded in indiscriminate slaughter,
whenever spotted by the Japanese troops,
young girls were dragged into the street to be abused.
The Nanjing massacre is among the worst atrocities
in human history
and is an eternal stain on the history of East Asia.
It is estimated that 200,000 civilians were massacred
with 20,000 to 80,000.
After the Japanese decimation of Nanjing,
the de facto Chinese capital became Wuhan,
which acted as the site for the aptly named Battle of Wuhan,
which lasted for four months in 1938.
Hundreds of thousands died as both sides suffered
unimaginably high casualties.
Though it resulted in another Japanese victory,
the heavy losses weakened the imperial army
who were also now struggling with military financing.
When they pushed into communist army territory
in the following period,
a Japanese retreat was forced by guerrilla fighters.
The tides of war were shifting
with the Allied Chinese slowing down the imperial Japanese
Army's advances until something of a stalemate was reached
and major large pitched battles became less common.
The guerrilla tactics had proved highly effective
and allowed for the preservation of the Chinese military
in the face of their invaders.
They held out until the end of World War II
and lived to see Japan's major defeat at the hands
of the Allied United States,
with the nuclear bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
In September of 1945,
the Japanese formerly surrendered in China.
With the end of the war, China was recognized
as one of the big four allies alongside the United Kingdom,
the Soviet Union, and the United States,
and regained all the territory that the Japanese had taken.
The final days of World War II did not see the fighting stop
in China, however, the Civil War resumed
and a battle for the remaining resources
and major metropolitan areas commenced
between the KMT and the CCP.
The United States tried to mediate the conflict, but failed.
The resumed Civil War lasted from 1945 to 1949
and resulted in Mao Zedong
and his hardened Red Army taking control over China
once and for all.
Having been able to garner far more support than the KMT
in rural areas, Zedong was able to capture
the resource rich centers of the country
using his People's Liberation Army,
the armed wing of the CCP.
It was truly a decisive victory
with the strength of the two armies
essentially being reversed from what they had been
in the first part of the Civil War.
(gentle music)
The People's Republic of China was established
by the CCP on October 1st, 1949.
A 55-year-old Mao Zedong now leading the country
was initially seeing very favorably by the people of China,
as he had once again reunited China
and seemed to be a man of the people.
Mao was able to reduce class inequality in his first years
in office by implementing major reforms
that redistributed land amongst the peasantry.
Over 1 million landlords were executed during this time,
known as the land reform movement.
As Mao desired to destroy the remaining fragments
of futile and capitalist societies in China.
He also desired the modernization
and industrialization of China
and attempted to do so in the 1958 social
and economic campaign called The Great Leap Forward,
which would result in the execution in famine related deaths
of somewhere between 30 and 45 million Chinese citizens.
The reforms focused on collectivization
and communal farming was introduced as nobody was allowed
to own private property.
The monopolization of agriculture allowed for the government
to cheaply acquire grain.
During this time, backyard furnaces were implemented
within each commune to encourage steel production.
Though nobody was trained particularly well
on how exactly to work with them,
people were forced to hurl their possessions
into the furnaces to increase steel production
and larger factories began to pop up as well.
Many were pulled from their initial jobs in schooling
to work in these factories, but it was no use.
At every avenue, the steel production was predictably
an immense failure that produced consistently poor quality
and oftentimes unusable results,
and simply diverted important manpower
and resources away from essential industries
such as food production.
By 1959, the Greek Chinese famine began
as a result of these policy failures
as well as natural weather disasters
that ruined the green reserves of the communities.
Reports of the consumption of household pets,
and even cannibalism became increasingly common
at this time.
The famines caused by the Great Leap Forward
had killed tens of millions of Chinese citizens
forcing Mao's resignation as state chairman.
He was succeeded by Liu Shaoqi.
Though Mao had not truly given up his power
in any real sense, it was merely a temporary retreat.
In July of 1966, Mao took a symbolic dip
in the Yangtze River to demonstrate his good health
and capable mind following rumors
that his old age had taken a toll on him.
He became the state chairman once again
and began his second period of reforms,
the cultural revolution.
The movement aimed to once again destroy all remnants
of capitalist sentiment in Chinese society
and secure Maoist power at the helm of China.
It did so by launching a radical campaign
against the bourgeois infiltrators,
he perceived to be negatively affecting the country.
Mao mobilized a student led youth organization
named the Red Guards,
encouraging them to put down any anti Maoist sentiment.
The Red Guard soldiers worshiped Mao like a God
and would do whatever was asked of them.
This spurred the Red August, a series of massacres
that would result in the deaths of 10,000 people.
27 educators were murdered by their own students
during this time for opposing the chairman's policies.
While countless other intellectuals
and elderly citizens were tortured,
the police were banned from interfering with the violence.
As Mao continued to encourage the slaughter
and torture of those who opposed him,
temples, scriptures and historical sites were destroyed
by Red Guards in the name of producing a new reformed China.
The country fell into anarchy when the revolutionaries began
dividing up into factions, prompting Mao to restore order
with the use of the official military in 1968.
He turned on the Red Guards as they had served their purpose
in destroying his enemies
and banished many to the countryside
where they would be less of a danger to society.
By the time the cultural revolution had ended,
somewhere between 500,000 to 2 million had perished.
By the time Mao died in 1976,
he had approximately 40 million to 80 million deaths
of starvation, overwork, and mass execution
attributed to his name.
Mao was succeeded by Deng Xiaoping
who would openly criticize Mao's policies in coming years
and lean towards a slightly more open China
with a market driven economy.
China's trade and economy were greatly strengthened
and the GDP would increase tenfold because of his reign.
There were however, still turbulent times ahead.
(gentle music)
In the spring of 1989, there was a major call for political
and economic reform of China's communist leadership
among university students.
There was an increasing sentiment
that communism was on the decline
and a tipping point was reached when Hu Yaobang,
former chairman and general secretary
of the Chinese Communist Party,
died on April 15th, 1989 at the age of 73,
who was well-liked by the population
and was seen as a beacon of hope
in a political landscape of corruption and nepotism.
An enemy of many party elders who was an advocate
for more liberal economic policies
and less restrictions on free speech whose death turned him
into something of an emblem for liberalization
amongst the students.
His funeral proceedings commenced on April 22nd,
and public gatherings were arranged
to honor him in numerous Chinese cities.
These gatherings began to serve as demonstrations
to protest the country's lack of democracy.
The largest of these demonstrations was in Tiananmen Square
in the heart of Beijing, and it only continued to grow
after clashes with police spurred more
and more angered students to join in protest.
The students' desired dialogue
with the government and drafted seven demands
for the ruling class.
(protesters chanting)
The pleas were as follows.
One, affirm Hu Yaobang's views on democracy
and freedom as correct.
Two, admit that the campaigns against spiritual pollution
and bourgeois liberalization had been wrong.
Three, publish information on the income of state leaders
and their family members.
Four, allow privately run newspapers
and stop press censorship.
Five, increased funding for education
and raise intellectuals pay.
Six, end restrictions on demonstrations in Beijing.
Seven, provide objective coverage
of students in official media.
When the students attempted to bring their demands
to a committee of the Communist Party,
the police shut them down once again, though they continued
to fight for their cause.
Strikes started at the country's universities
and the government began taking a harsher stance
on the protests.
Fearing anarchy, they accused the students
of plotting civil unrest,
which only led to greater anger on both sides.
100,000 students and workers took to Tiananmen Square
to protest following this decision,
demanding that the government retract their declaration,
many took to hunger striking,
which garnered more support for their cause.
Speeches from the government in the Square
were unsuccessful.
The students would not let up.
- The students have certain requirements which must be met,
otherwise they won't leave the Square.
- [Narrator] After multiple debates
and plenty of inner turmoil within the government
on how to handle the situation, many officials were fired.
In the last two weeks of May, Marshall Law was declared
and the military was ordered into Beijing,
but the troops were blocked by Beijing citizens
who flooded the streets in massive droves.
Some art students among the protestors built
and erected a massive paper mache statue called the Goddess
of Democracy, which became a symbol
of their defiance against the Communist Party.
Many western journalists were stationed in the Square,
broadcasting the events to the rest
of the world just like the government however,
the students were becoming increasingly hectic
and entered a state of disarray.
The Square was incredibly overcrowded
and the protesters lacked centralized leadership.
Students began breaking up into factions
and accusing each other of having ulterior motives
such as becoming famous from the protests
or even secretly conspiring with the government.
It was a perfect storm of chaos.
It was at this time that all hell broke loose.
By the dawn of June,
the government reached a breaking point,
and on the third of the month,
the People's Liberation Army was ordered into Beijing.
The government issued an emergency broadcast
demanding citizens to stay out of Tiananmen Square,
but the protestors did not listen.
Some students created their own broadcasts
and called for the city's inhabitants to arm themselves
and head to the Square to fight against the government.
When the troops arrived in Beijing,
protestors began lighting buses on fire
to try to block the Army's path,
prompting the troops to open fire with their assault rifles.
Many were killed while others were ruthlessly beaten
by gangs of troops in the streets.
Some soldiers were caught by rock
and Molotov cocktail wielding protestors and beaten to death
after being dragged outside of their vehicles.
The tanks marched forward
crushing those who stood in their way.
Because of the government's crackdown on any remembrance
or recognition of the Tiananmen Square massacre,
it is still unknown just how many were killed
in the chaotic clashes.
Journalists were prevented from reporting on the events,
so little footage remains.
Even though there is no official death toll,
estimates range between several 100 to 10,000.
By the morning of June 5th,
the troops had seized complete control of Tiananmen Square
and cleared the area of protestors.
There was however, one infamous lone protestor
known as Tank Man who continued his resistance that day.
An American photographer named Jeff Widener captured images
of a solitary, unarmed protestor confronting a line
of tanks.
A photograph of Tank Man got Widener nominated
for a Pulitzer Prize,
and the imagery has since been adopted globally as a symbol
of resistance in the face of oppression and tyranny.
Following the government's control of the Square,
all governmental and state media employees
who expressed sympathetic attitudes towards the students
lost their jobs, with some being placed on house arrest.
Some known protestors were executed after the fact,
while others were handed long prison sentences.
Being a democratic country that mostly sympathized
with the anti-communist protests,
the United States issued both diplomatic
and economic sanctions on China
and the Western world's opinion on the country
greatly soured.
The country's economic state was significantly weakened
by the sudden lack of trade.
(calm music)
A period of great changes was occurring
around the remaining communist world during this time,
and in 1991, the Soviet Union collapsed,
leaving China as the only major communist state on earth.
Despite this global isolation
as well as the fiscal hit taken
following the Tiananmen incident,
China was able to recover financially throughout the 1990s
after sanctions were gradually lifted
as a more mixed economy of capitalism
and socialism began to take shape.
Insular foreign policies were reversed,
and the open for trade country continued operating
under the mantra of the now retired
Deng Xiopang's famed mantra, "To get rich is glorious."
We are getting closer to the modern day,
which brings us to the most important figure
of contemporary China, Xi Jinping,
but who exactly is Xi Jinping and where did he come from?
(dramatic music)
On the 15th of June, 1953, Xi Jinping was born in Beijing.
His father, Xi Zhongxun was a former member of the Red Army
and had been comrades in arms with Mao Zedong
during the Chinese Civil War.
He served as a high ranking official
within the Communist Party,
and though would eventually fall out of favor
with the Chinese government
after openly critiquing their handling
of the Tiananmen Square protests,
he was able to hold a position until his retirement in 1993.
Xi Jinping's mother, Qi Xin was a like-minded communist
who had worked with the government
as a consultant in the Communist party state-run schools.
After his graduation from Tsinghua University's
chemical engineering program in Beijing,
Jinping's political career began in 1972.
He started out working as a secretary for Geng Biao,
a senior official in the government,
and a former subordinate of his father's.
After three years under Geng,
Xi began working as a deputy secretary for the CCP
in the province of Hebei,
a position that includes working with policy implementations
and party organization.
He did an exceptional job
and continued to climb the governmental ladder
throughout the 80s and 90s,
marrying famed folk singer Peng Liyuan along the way.
By 1999, he had achieved the role
of the Fujian province's acting governor.
This meant that he had boosted administrative control
and a larger hand in infrastructure development.
Though his career did not slow down
with this major achievement.
Eight years later, after another series of promotions,
inner turmoil and controversy
surrounding a major social security fund corruption scandal
opened up many opportunities within the government,
having successfully avoided any controversy himself
Xi seized this chance to move on up.
In October of 2007, the blooming politician was appointed
to the nine man Politburo Standing Committee
of the Chinese Communist Party.
The committee consists of the government's top leadership,
and when Xi was ranked above Li Keqiang,
a fellow rising political star
and contender for the succession of President Hu Jintao
it became quite clear
that he would be the nation's next leader.
He was elected vice president in the spring of 2008
and saw a number of major projects
such as the Summer Olympics in Beijing,
which took place later that same year.
He also became the leading figure
in the issue of affairs with Hong Kong.
In later years, he would become locked into a rivalry
with Bo Xilai, who was also seen as a top contender,
but a major political scandal paved the way
for Xi's leadership.
The Wang Lijun Incident began when Neil Heywood,
a British businessman,
was found dead in his Chongqing hotel room in 2011.
Heywood had business dealings with Bo
and his spouse, Gu Xilai for over a decade.
The death was initially ruled as an alcohol poisoning
caused by excessive consumption.
However, just a few short months later,
the municipal police Chief Wang Lijan sought asylum
at the United States Chinese consulate
and claimed that Gu had poisoned Heywood,
which was what truly killed the Brit
rather than alcohol consumption.
After a thorough murder investigation,
the murderous truth was revealed
as Gu had indeed decided to kill Neil
during a mental breakdown over blackmail
and demands of $22 million
over a failed real estate venture.
Gu was handed a suspended death sentence,
though it was eventually commuted to a life sentence
in late 2015, while Li Keqiang's political career
was utterly decimated
and he was purged of his role in the CCP as a result of him
and his second wife's misconduct.
This scandal paved the way
for Xi Jinping's unopposed rise to power,
so its effects on the modern world cannot be understated.
On March 14th, 2013, Xi was elected president
by the National People's Congress
and quickly enacted a series of measures
to fortify the Communist party's grip on Chinese society.
Anti-corruption campaigns were launched
to weed out political rivals, and his power was centralized.
A campaign for ideological control
was also set in motion after his election.
Internet and media censorship were heightened
to ensure no content deemed as oppositional
to the CCPs ideals could be consumed in China
and surveillance on civilians greatly increased.
China possesses 700 million surveillance cameras,
roughly one for every two citizens.
Furthermore, the social credit system was introduced
as a means of keeping the population in check.
The social credit score essentially rates the country's
individual citizens on how well they are performing in life
and how aligned they are with the CCPs ideals,
financial standing, criminal history,
and other such factors all affect one's social credit score.
By 2018, presidential term limits were completely abolished.
Xi was recently awarded his third, five year term,
and with such tightly consolidated power, he's now on track
to remain in power for the rest of his life,
or at least as long as he desires.
(gentle music)
Under Xi Jinping's stern authoritarian leadership,
China has maintained its role
as an unstoppable economic force.
They continue to industrialize at a rapid pace
and lead the world in the manufacturing sector.
The population has now soared to 1.4 billion,
surpassed only marginally in 2023 by India,
and the influence of the country only continues to grow.
Tensions are currently rising
with Xi Jinping's potential aims to invade Taiwan
and the tightening of his governmental power over Hong Kong.
Many African countries that China is heavily invested in
are feeling an increase in Chinese intervention as well
in a process that many are labeling as Neocolonialist.
Many Westerners fear the diplomatic and global implications
of this aim for expansion.
As the looming threat of the Chinese military
becomes more threatening by the day,
they have flourished into the world's second most powerful
army behind just the United States
and possessed the largest navy on earth.
Mandarin Chinese, spoken by nearly a billion people
worldwide is often called the language of the future
as China continues to solidify its place as a key player
in the new era of globalization.
However, nobody truly knows what the next great nation
of tomorrow will be or what the future will hold.
There is only one certainty about the fascinating region,
the stories that make up the rich history
of earth's longest continuous civilization, China
will be told for generations to come.